éﬂmﬁm 2"”Wm._ ”70
There was activity in the air
Sobs had been written. recos taken,
Certificates xeroxed, dollar drafts purchased,
The aps were in the mail!
There was anxiety in the air,
Here a missing score report, there a lost transcript.
Your competitor is ditching: pay for his telegram;
Chalo Ad Block!
It's time for the phone calls.
There was celebration in the air,
The aids were coming in.
Harvest's been good this time: let's celebrate,
Dinner at Chola. and never mind the prices!
There was mild surprise in the air,
Oh, dear!
How annoying of the visa female.
To reject a person with full aid!
What is the world coming to. these days?
There was consternation in the air,
The grim news spread: reject count increasing!
The man-eating tigress had tasted blood,

And liked it:

damn her soul!

She was rejecting right a left.

There was terror in the air.
Through the length and breadth of the great city.
They spoke in whispers, behind bolted doors, late into
the night,
0f the man-easter's fiendish cunning.
There was terror in the air,
The sweet old lady: she'd smile at you- till the last moment,
Then with a roar she'd spring out of ambush,
And pin you to the ground, and stamp your paSSport.
There was terror in the air,
Sometimes she'd relax her vigil and let one thru.
The very next she'd attack ferociously.
Slay him in cold blood, lick her ch0ps, and wait for more.
There was bitter anger in the air.
To spend thousands for applying - all to this end?
To land a top-notch univ and be balked? Wild-eyed schemes,
For assassination and worse, discussed and rejected.
There was a stirring of hape in the air,
There's a male officer now:
Spread the word: And rush for your visa,

The man-eater may return any moment.
There was urgency in the air,
Frantic phone calls to all stations.
Hasty mid-night trips in unreserved trains.

Q up for the visa, grab it: and you're through!
There was relief in the air.
The female stayed away two weeks,

Enough!
For nimble IITians to crawl through.
America, here we come!
- J Sreekanth

