An extract from the address delivered to students by the late Dr. Sir
Sydney Smith, President of the University of Toronto in 19S5-Contributed
by Shree M. C. Gupta.
,C You have freedom of choice, and by inescapable equations your choices
will bring you profit or loss. If you choose to work, you will pass; if you
don't, you will fail. If you neglect your work, you will dislike it: if you do it
well, you will enjoy it. If you join little cliques, you will be self~satisfied; if
you make friends widely, you will be interesting. If YOIl act like a boor, you
will be despised; if you act like a human being, you will be respected. If you
spurn wisdom, wise people will spurn you; if you seek wisdom, they wm seek
you. If you adopt a pose ,of boredom, you will be a bore: if you show vitality you will be alive. If you spend your free time playing bridge, you will be
a good bridge player: jf you spend it reading, discussing and thinking of
things that matter, you will be an educated person.

"If you have come here for social prestige, you can get what you are
after, but you may not like it much when you have got it; you would really
have done better to concentrate on debutante's parties. If you have come
here to learn to make money, you can get what you are after. but you run the
risk of finding yourself unhappy in your goal; you would really have done
better to get into the building trades or the stock market. If you have come
here to be a personality kid and win friends and influence people, you might
get what you are after, but it would have been quicker and cheaper to take a
course in salesmanship.
"If you have come here to serve your fellowmen as a member of one of
the learned professions, you are in the right place. If you have come to study
the most important ideas that mankind has evolved, you are in the right place.
If you have come to penetrate the fascinating mysteries and powers of nature,
you are in the right place. If you have come to learn of the cultural and
intellectual heritage of the past, so as to stand on the giant's shoulders and
see farther, 'to follow knowledge, like a sinking star, beyond the utmost
bound of human thought' you are in the right place. You may never get
what you are after, but in the trying you will become what you could never
otherwise have been, and these next few years that you spend here will be the
key stone of the arch of your experience."

2

