AT THE ,. CIRCUS"
Dr. Th. RAMACHANDRAN
When colleague M and I decided to see the Cricket Test Match we
little realised what we were in for.
We knew, of course, that we would have to fight hard for the tickets.
The season tickets were sold out months ago, only a M.P. or a Cabinet
Minister could still have got one of those. Not belonging even to the
M.L.A. class, we dared not aspire for such distinctions. But the possibility
occured to me of tapping a cricketing acquaintance of mine, to whom I had
once bowled rather ineffective googties, which he used to take relish in clouting rar and wide. Being perhaps the only bowler with whom he could take
such liberties, he had a special regard for me, or rather for my bowling. He
was in the privileged position of being the cousin of a Test Probable and was
known to wield, even otherwise, great power in the circles that matter. He
kindly remembered his hits off my feeble bowling and offered to help me in
getting a couple of tickets. Accordingly the first of my cricket pilgrimages
started. I took French leave from the office and turned up at the booking
office well ahead of the appointed time, fuIl of expectations and bank notes.
Within five minutes I was out of the booking office, the expectations having
vanished and the bank notes stilI intact. To my misfortune, and probably to
his, the Test Probable had failed to advance beyond the "probability" stage
and ephemeral as the fame and influence of star performers are, his influence
bad suffered as a consequence.
Undeterred by this initial set-back I consulted M about the next course
of action and he suggested trying our luck with the daily tickets. We found
out that the term " daily" was not to be taken too literally, the tickets for a
particular day being sold on the preceding day. Naturally you cannot expect
tickets for a test-match to be sold on the same day I Wbat would the outside
world think of us and our lack of seriousness about Cricket?
One afternoon was, therefore. spent on acquiring the coveted (and
costly) pieces of paper. When we arrived at the booking office a few hours
before the sale of tickets was due to commence, only a score or so of similarminded persons had already lined up at the counter. We soon found out
that there ~as no room for complacency, as almost every one of them
represented at least a dozen absentee enthusiasts. i)r possibly the same
number of would-be black·market purchasers. All the same we managed to

