THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

11

obtain for the small consideration or six rupees a piece, our marIes of distinction which elevated us above the commoners, who neither read nor spoke of
cricket, and what is more, had not been to the test-match. We did not even
mind the patronising airs of the man at the counter, resembling rather those
of a head-master supervising the distribution of sweets to school-children on
R.epublic Day, and we were delighted at our "sweets".
Alarm clocks have a disgusting tendency of not going off when most
needed and mine is no exception. Generally this does not affect me as I
sleep very little on occasions such as this, when something. so exciting and
important as a cricket Test, is in the offing. This time, however, I went into
a deep sleep just before I was due to get up. I dreamt I was a Test Player
just completing the fastest century in history, in a matter of some ten hours.
A deafening roar went up in the Stadium around me•.. and I woke up. The
deafening noise was still there-the buffaloes were already on the street
To my horror I saw that it was already five-thirty in the morning and
only five hours remained before the commencement of play. Allowing half
an hour for getting ready and the usual hour necessary in Madras to get
anywhere by bus (in Madras, of course, the time for a journey is almost
independent of the distance covered, as about three-quarters of an hour is
taken up in issuing tickets after travelling about 200 yards!), I could be at
the ground only at about seven. M and 1 had been told that we had better
be on the ground before sunrise, if we were keen on watching the game
,itting down.
I nearly scalded my tongue trying to gulp down the steaming-hot coffee.

My wife remarked acidly that I would have got the Nobel Prize or even a
triple increment of salary if I had been half as serious about my work as 1
was about Cricket. Being one of those husbands who believe in discretion
being the better part of valour when confronting their wives, I kept quiet.
Finding no response my wife did the same, but not before mumbling something about no sarees and aU cricket matches. which I feigned not to
understand.
When I bolted out of my flat into the darkness outside the very atmosphere reeked of cricket, though it did even more of buffaloes and cows. The
whole world seemed to be moving towards the bus terminus; who could
rely on a mere bus-stop on &uch a day?
Fortunately for me, M had already arrived and was well up in the
queue. And as a clean shirt in India is even today an effective substitute
foJ' good manners, I squeezed mysel( into the queue behind M and got away
with it, save perhaps for some dark looks from those behind me, which I

