12

INDIAN INSTITlJ1'E OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

could not see anyway t We might as well have not queued up, for when the
bus did arrive a quarter of an hour late, there was a free-for-aU struggle to
get into it. The bus was of the type that prohibited standing passengers
and. therefore, there were only some twenty or so of this category, e'ieryone
standing on aBother"s toes. Some carried drums and some cymbals, and for
these, standing was an ordeal, even dangerous. But tbey bore it all with
equanimity, even as the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims to Sabari Malai
must have done all these years, braving tigers and elephants and shouting
.. Ayyappa"! The atmosphere was the same, only the religion and the Gods
were different and the venue of it aU. And these "Gods" are almost as
much venerated in certain circles as those other "Gods" of the cine-world
are by their fans.
The bus disgorged us at the Central Station and we soon found out that
we did not have to walk far, for a half of the population ef India was
already there and the rows of people wanting to get in extended almost upto
the Moore Market. Here was national integration at its best and you could
bear there aU the languages mentioned in the Constitution and a few more.
A turbaned Sikh prince in silk shirt and white flannels was bemoaning the
sad: state of royalty in India to a prince of Cochin, who would have become
the Maharaja in A.D. 2020, but for the cruel machinations of Patel.
Rajkumars of Rajasthan were jostling with those of his kind from Orissa
and Tamil separationists were fratemising with cow-protecting Hinduists from
Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. And aU this in the cause of Cricket, our national
(!\) game!
This was the day for colas and creams. Business was brisk, and as we
advanced in the queue, the prices of commodities increased. The cost of
living index increased from the Central Station to the Stadium in about the
same proportion as it has done generaUy in India from 1948 to 1961. But
fortunately for all of us, there has been DO parallel to the sudden and steep
shooting up of the index when you actually crossed the threshold into the
stands. Here you could part with a small fortune for wanting to quench
your thirst with vividly coloured potions looking like poison and tasting
worse. Souvenir cartons with cheap Cricket motifs outside and junk inside
changed hands like election money between rival candidates.
When we :finally did get into the stadium we found that for a mere six
rupees a day one could not expect either a reserved seat or shelter from the
sun. To avoid the fierce sun for the two hours or so left before the start of
the game we wanted to take a stroll outside by turns. But no! Once inside
always inside, said the smart Auxilliary Air Force men guarding the entrance.
And inside there was hardly room to breathe; we were forced back to our
seats and the SUD.

