THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

13

To add insult to injury Bed1am was let loose on us in the shape of
vendors of everything under the Bun. Obnoxious colas and sweets at inflated
prices kept on coming. Sun-shades, distributed free of cost outside.
proclaiming the virtues of a particular brand of cigarettes or of creams for
the addition and removal of hair, were being sold at unashamedly high prices.
These vendors came along one after another in rapid succession and on each
such occasion there was an ex.hibition of concerted knee-raising on the part
of the spectators. The spacing between rows of chairs conformed to the
most exacting austerity specifications and any unconscious movement oflegs
was not conductive to healthy knees.
One bore all this with philosophic unconcern in the hope that the situation would improve once the game started. But the hope soon proved to be
devoid of substance. The hawkers actually stepped up their activity and
any protest was met with sucb vituperative retorts that we soon learned to
endure all uncomplainingly.
What I saw of the game in between vendors was nothing to write home
about. Somehow things that matter happened only when there was a hawker
between me and the pitch. But. of course, we were kept "well" informed
("Polly Umrigar bowling to Polly Umrigar,t) of the state of tbe game by a
hundred smuggled transistor radios screaming out the running commentary,
all around us. When the hawkers did let us see the game undisturbed for a
whole minute or even two (and tbey did this occasionally, it must be said to
their credit) we could even compare notes with the experts" of AIR. (we
seem to do nothing nowadays without "experts", but these were only Indian
"experts"). It is a surprising fact that all "experts", even the Indian ones,
bave a lot of language trouble. We found that the running commentary was
almost always two or three balls slow. Cricket, of course, is a difficult game
to cover. It has its own language with a rich and varied vocabulary, consisting of a dozen expressions and half that number of special epithets, and one
has to master all these to be an able commentator. It is even advantageous
to know something about the game, but it is not thought to be essential.
The greatest difficulty is, no doubt, the terrific tempo at which the game is
played. So much happens every moment of the five or more days of a Test
match that the commentators have to pay extra premium on their insurance
policies, as the excitement could at any momemt prove fatal! It is not like
covering some slow game like football or hockey!
For the rest, my memory is a jumbled one of the cacophony of cymbals
and drums, of thousands of school children and college students (all of
whom seemed to have a lot of money to spend, patronising as they were the
more expensive stands), of occasional bursts of the crowd. on to the ground
to cougratulate some hero or the other, of eountless politicians (to judae by

