*DAMN THE CONGO!
T. S. ANANTHU & K. M.

KluPANARAYANAN

No, I am not a Lumumbist dissatisfied with the trend of events in the
Congo. But just as millions of supporters of the late Patrice Lumumba
throughout the world, the overworked officials of the U. N. Secretariat,
widows and orphans of U. N. soldiers butchered in the Congo, the
mourners and relatives of Mr. Hammarskjoeld. as well as Mr. Rajeshwar
Dayal, Dr. Conor Cruise O'Brien and other "diplomatic casualties" in the
Congo, say "Damn the Congo!" I too add, "Damn tho Congo!" - though
for entirely different reasons.
The reaSOD is that the Congo crisis cost me the job of an Assistant
Engineer in a respectable firm in Madras. You may ask, what has the job
of an Assistant Engineer got to do with the Congo'1 That is precisely the
question that I would like to put to my interviewers.
There were a number of applicants for the job, but I was easily head and
shoUlders above the others as far as academic qualifications were concerned.
So I was called witb four others for an interview, and was the first to be
interviewed.

I bad prepared myself on a number of subjects. 1 was thorough with
all scientific and technological subjects, and had even learnt a few things in
History and Geography, so that I could not be accused of complete lack of
general knowledge. But the one subject that I had not touched was politics.
The interview began with the usual polite questions on my name and
qualifications. I told them that I had stood first in class, first in my Higher
Secondary Examination, topped the list of successful candidates in I.I.T., and
had had a lot of practical training in Germany•
.. That won't matter," remarked the Director of the firm, who was the
chief interviewer. There were two others with him. "How learned you are
can be seen from your answers to the questions that we shall put to you now.
Tell me, now, what is the latest situation in the Congo 1"
Congo-now, where had 1 heard of this? Certainly not in Physics,
Chemistry, Mathematics or Applied Mechanics. Was it in History? No,
there was nobody by name of King Coogo. Then it must be in Geography.
Yes, I had heard of a river Congo. Where was it-in Africa or in Antarctica? Must be in Antarctica.

• Prize witminl c:cmtributiOD.

