16

INDIA.N INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. MADRAS
"It's frozen Sir," I replied.

They looked obviously satisfied-and it

was only later on that I knew that they thought I meant that the political
situation there was frozen. The next question was, "What do you think of
the conduct of the politicians there 1"
For the first time I realized that it was politics on which I was being
questioned. I looked from one interviewer to the other, and finally heard
one of them remark to the Director that I may not like to cast aspersions on
individual politicians. To my relief, the Director appreciated the point, and
put the next question. "What do you think of the future of the Union
Miniere?"
Aha! I certainly knew something about the Union Miniere I told them
that the prospects of the Union Miniere would increase considerably if they
adopted tbe 'Wet Process' of the manufacture of Copper, as electricity was
available in cbeaper quantities. I gave them data signifying how much profit
it would mean per year-but while doing so noticed the faces of the interviewers, which showed tbat this was certainly not the answer they were
expecting from, us. Obviously, they were wanting' something about the
political conflict around this Mining Company. of which I knew nothing.
"Do you think Katanga ought to be granted freedom:' the Director
asked.
I decided to be bold, and tried to answer these questions somebowthough I had never heard of Katanga earlier.
had heard so many politicians lecture about the necessity of giving each and every person freedom and
independence, and so answered, "I think that, just as everybody is entitled to
independence, Mr. Katanga should also be freed from prison and .........

r

I was able to get no funber, for all three interviewers burst into roars of
laughter. My confidence in getting this job was dwindling.
"What do you think of the Lumumbification of six nationalist leaders in
Bakwanga, capital of the so-called diamond mining state of South Kasai 1" •
asked the Director.
J had heard of esterification and saponification, but never ofLumumbification, and when I pleaded my ignorance, they explained to me that
Lumumbification was a term coined by the Director to denote the murder of
patriotic leaders by foreign agents. However. this did not make things any
easier for me, and the Director had to pass on to the next question.

"Do you think it would be difficult to achieve an integral Congo ?" he
asked.

