THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

he a (will feel secure while climbing and b) will not get get hurt due to an
accidental slip. There are many types of belays but the most secure is the
sitting-hip belay shown in the figure by the soldier from the U. S. Army
Mountaineering Manual. For this two persons are required, a belayer and
a climber. The climber ties himself into the rope in a bow-line and the
belayer (for the present, the instructor) ascends on an easy slope to ledge at
a convenient distance. There he sits down and jams his feet against a rock
or out-cropping and passes the rope from the climber around his body. The
figure shows a right-handed belayer, the right band being the brake band and
the left hand, the guide hand. (For left-handers, vice versa). It can b~
easily demonstrated that the brake hand alone is sufficient to hold one or two
climbers on the rope jf the maximum amount of frictional resistance of the
rope on the rocks and around the body is utilised. The guide hand is used
as the name implies: to take up and give slack to the climber below.
Once the belayer and climber are at their respective stations on the rope
a few practice belays are called for. The step-wise procedure is as fonows:

(1) Vociferous Exchange of Signals between the belayer (X) and the
climber (A). In English·, these are:
(A) : On Belay??
(X) : On Belay I
(A) : Test Belay!

(X) : Test Belay!
(A) : Testing!

(2) A climbs up a few steps and deliberately falls !

(3) X presses firmly with his feet against the rocks and brings his right
hand across his hips towards his left. Presto! A is stopped in his falt
quite easily and is not hurt at all. Neither does X feel any great strain, in
fact hardly a strong pull on his arms.
(4) A and X are now mutually confident of their team-work. A starts
climbing and X takes up the slack slowly never once removing his right hand
from the braking position. A reaches X. X can now, jf he wants to go on
higher.
(5) A becomes the belayer and X or B or C. the climber. A learns
how to belay.
• Pending translation into Hindi and/or Rcaio1l8J Language by Experts and Appr~
val by the Appropriate Committee.

