The next step is to learn how to climb. FigtU'e 3 demonstrates one
essential principle of climbing-the three-point suspension, i.e. two hands
and a foot or two feet and a hand must always be OD the rock. The fourth
limb is llsed to feel for the next hold. The other essential principle is to
manouever one's Centre of Gravity within the chosen three points. To
accurately determine the C. G. one needs a helper, a plumb bob and a pencil.
The helper. of course, must know how to calculate the C. G. of irregular
shapes. However, for most purposes the body seems to do very well for
itself with the know lege of the security of the rope, and a good belayer
above.
Note that Figure 3 do!S not show a rope. It should have been there.
It does show however, what a balance-climb is. This is one where the
climber, fonowing good practice, climbs with his arms below the head. and

uses his powerful thigh and calf muscles for support mOl'e than his arm
muscles.
Figure 4 shows a more advanced climb. the lie-back. If the rock has a
crack or fissure not wide enough to get into but enough to jam one's hands
in, then this climb is used.
It consists in kicking against the far side with the feet and pulling on
the near edge of the crack. The belay is from below and therein hangs a
tale. (no pun intended). Climbing is usually done in teams of three, consisting of the leader, the middle man and the end mall. The leader, being one
who leads, cannot be belayed from above but has to be belayed from below.
This type of belaying is safe, though not as safe as a belay from above. It
follows that leaders have to be exceptionally good and confid~nt climbers.·
Figure 5 shows a chimney-climb. Here the person jams the whole of
his body into the chimney or fissure in the rock face and uses the frictional
resistance of the body against the walls for support. The climbing is done
by inching** upwards by a rubbing motion. It may be remembered that in
figure 3 we talked about a three point suspension approximately five fingers or
five toes (albeit enclosed by shoes) as one of the points. This was an Engineering approximation entirely without rigour. In the chimney climb the
treatment adopted is one borrowed from Modem Physics and therefore more
elegant. We carry out a Lorentz transformation on the human back after
first drawing a series of lines OD it. (Checked shirts worn by the climber
help!). After a sufficient number of these operations it can easily be shown
that the back is a point at the extremely slow speeds used in climbing.
• See my .. Rock ClimbiDI .for Leaden (in ODO casy lesson)". in next year's
Annual Number •
•• Most rock climbers unfortunately db Dot nIClOpiu tllc Metric S)'Stem altomatoa.
millimetrein•• mctrcilll. etc:.

"

