26

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MADRA.S

It remains to teach the new enthusiast how to get down once he has
reached the top. For this we refer to figure 6. This is known as Rappeling,
and is the quickest and safest way to come down whenever possible. Shown
in the fiure is a body-rappel. The step-wise body-rappel procedure follows:
(1) Double the rope round a rock or something that will hold a climber
in a tree, clpse enough to the next lower platform or ledge.
(2) Straddle the rope and for right handers the rope goes across the
right hip and the left shoulder and back to the right hand. This is the
braking hand (Left handers, vice versa).
(3) Kick firmly against the rock and lean back on the rope while sliding
down. Use right hand to brake the motion, using as much friction area of
tbe body as possible. The left hand is tbe guide hand and is used for
support and balance.

(4) Once at ground level, extricate yourself and pull the rope to the
ground, around the tree.
Some additional notes on the procedure are necessary. Notice the
almost perpendicular position of the climber on the wall. This minimises
the chance of slipping down without control. It is left as an exercise to the
budding climber to draw the Force Diagram for this system. (Hint; Do not
use the "frictionless", "weightless" approximations). Gloves should be
worn during rappeling. otherwise the hands get rope burns on them. The
temperature profile of the human hand witl1ou~ gloves during rappeling can
be calculated based on the Fourier-Poisson Equation. * Eager climbers
attempting an experimental check should take along a table of Laplace
Transforms and a bottle of vaseline.
Well, welt, wen, so we can climb now. Isn't it fun? But one should
not rest on one's laurels. Continue on your own using the same judicious
mixture of practical work backed by sound theory. We close by pointing
out that by substituting the feminine gender for the masculine, wherever
applicable, the article can be used to teach rock climbing to ladies. This is
in keeping with current thinking on womens' education during the Third
Plan Period. The article has been approved by the Central Non-Himalayan
Sub-Montane Institute (Southern Region) and the All India Institution of
Nylon Rope Artists.
• Sot .. The Conduction of Heat tbroup solidat'-Carslaw A laeaer.

