"FOR OFFIC[AL USE ONLY"
"T. S. R."
We are tempted to take most of the words for granted when we become
used to tbem, forgetting that each is alive dnd full of mystery. More so, the
words used in the official documents and communications. I have often felt
amused to find how effectively the English language can be used to conceal
the real intention behind the ' official' mind.
Here is an official document, euphemistically styled as a .. progress
report". It is a perfect model to be adopted by those hapless officials who
have to write something about nothing and with no progress to report. For
the uninitiated, simple translation is given within brackets.
During the year under report, considerable progress has been made in
the preliminary work: directed towards the establishment of the intitial activities " (They are getting ready to start but they have not done anything yet.)
"The background information has been surveyed and considerable difficulty
has been encountered in the selection of optimum materials and experimental
methods, but this problem is being attacked vigorously and we expect that
the development phase will proceed at a satisfactory rate". (They are still
trying to find their feet). "In order to prevent unnecessary duplication of previous efforts in the same field, it was necessary to establish a
survey team which has conducted a rather extensive tour in the immediate
vicinity of the production areas". (They are having a nice time going round
at state expense). "The ad-hoc committee held its regular meetings and
considered rather important policy matters pertaining to the over-all organisational levels of the staff responsibilities that devolve on the personn~l
associated with the specific assignments relating from the broad functi6nal
specification". (I confess this is untranslatable, sorry). " It is believed that
the rate of progress will continue to accelerate as necessary personnel are
recruited to fill the vacant situations ". (They hope to get some work done
as soon as they find someone who knows something).
Verily, Pope must have come across such a report before he wrote his
lines "Words are like leaves, and where they most abound.
Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found".
There are certain bureaucratic cllchea which have often proved to be the
pveyard of semanticists. When you are informed tbat your request is

