INDIA.N INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MA.DIUS

28

.. under active consideration" of the authority, you feel a glow of satisfaction. Behind the reassuring ring of the phrase. the truth is most likely to be
that your papers are temporarily mislaid and there is a frantic effort to find
them. There is another favourite cxpression-" Passed on to higher ~utho­
rity ". You begin to feel that things are moving at last and it burgeons with
promise and even hits at performance in the not distant future. But, alas!
it may be that your papers have been pigeonholed in some more sumptuous
quarters. Sometime you hear after ,much distracting correspondence that
your request has been accepted .. in principle" by those in authority. The
implication. -Quite obviously is that after so much of exertion on the part of
the high-up, it would be churlish on your part t-o get restive about performance and concrete results. If, however, you are assured that your representati01l will be considered .. in due course ", you may rest assured that it has
bee1l safely <consigned to that veritable limbo of oblivion. the W.P.B.
But then, reading this, if you challenge the phlegmatic "Quill-driver"
in the office, who is the true begetter of the foregoing expressions provocative
of thOUght, whether he is not a 'relentless quibbler', he will, true to
his tradition, n neither canfion nor deny ,•.

*

*

*

'"It looks as if our errand bey at the shop is dishonest. n
"Ob, you mustn°t judge by appearance.4l
"I am not. 1 m judging by -disappearances.
0

*

•

*

Mother: What are you jumping up and down for, sOn ?
Son : When I took my medicine I for.,t to shake the b0ttle•

•

•

"When do girls talk least 1"
"Pebruary-beacause it is .abe shortest.

.

•

..

Two Americans were looking at an 'Egyptian mummy, besides which was
written. "6400 B.C."

,to

"What is that number
as'ked one of them.
"Must be the number of the car that rode over him," replied the second.

•

..

Mother: What are you lookin8for't
Child: Oh, nothing!
Mother: You"n find it in the box where the sweets wwe.

