BALMY DAYS AT BRISBANE
R.

NATARAJAN, I.A.S.

Cricket, '\vhich seemed inexorably headed for the text books of -the
antiquarians," was destined to be reborn, after all. The "greatest Test of aU"
between Australia and the West Indies, which came off between the 9th and
the 14th of December 1960 at Brisbane, did indeed breathe a "new and lusty
life into the ailing spectre of a once great game." Fingleton hit the bull's
eye when he said, "International cricket emerged from that breathless, spine
tingling Test as a game-for the enjoyment of the players themselves and the
enormous delight of the cash customers." What, then, were the ingredients
of that Balmy Brisbane brew-of a Test that ended as a Tie (it had never
happened before in the whole history of five hundred Test matches, with one
ball left to bowl after 3,142 balls had been bowled and 1,474 runs scored,
which Benaud described as the finest game of cricket in which he had ever
been privileged to take part and O'Reilly as ··the greatest happening in any
sport 1"
Coming events cast their shadows before, they say, but that just did not
happen before the Brisbane test. The start to the West Indian tour of
Australia could not have been more dismal, in more senses than one. In an
untypical Australian summer, the rain had followed the Caribbeans
across the Commonwealth from Perth to Brisbane, alongside of mixed fortunes
too. The Calypso cricketers went down to Western Australia in the opening
big match of the tour, drew with a combined team at Perth in a game they
should have won had they held their catches, were behind South Australia at
Adelaide, had "compensated" for their glorious innings victory over Victoria
at Melbourne with a disappointing innings defeat at the hands of New South
Wales at Sydney and had allowed themselves to be led by lowly Queensland
on the eve of the Brisbane Test. Individual performances, too, had not kept
company with the reputation of the West Indian stars. Except for Kanhai's
gold~n 252 against Victoria, it was a case of "Darkness at Noon". Sobers
had played and failed in both the innings at Sydney having been bowled,
middle stump, by the first and only ball he had received from Benaud in the
second innings. Hall and Hunte, Worrell and Watson, Solomon and
Sonny Ramadhin had not exactly been scorching bushfire~, which the
Kangaroos are accustomed to "down under". Little wonder that Fingleton
had written them off as ~'a typical West Indian side-in the heights one
moment. in the depths the next."
Atout 11,000 spectators took their seats at the Brisbane ground on the
14th of December, 1he first day of the Test, with the comforting tlwught"that

