30

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

COOn their best days, the way the West Indians played Test wicket against the
Australians was magnificent, but it was not the way, to win Test matches."
They could be cavaliers, yes, but not conquerors.
Worrell won the toss and the opening day as well. Those inured to
cautious skirmishing at the beginning of an innings rubbed their eyes in
disbelief when Hunte, who had opened with Smith, offdrove opening bowler
Davidson's third Ball of the day to the fence and slammed the very next to
square leg for four. Smith joined in the plunder, pulling Davidson over the
leg fence for six. Sobers, Worrell. Solomon, Lashley and Alexander kept the
steam on, with the result that the West Indians rattled up 359 runs for 7
wickets in only 6 hours of batting. Fingleton had to confess "Never had I
seen an Australian attack so tom to tatters in a single day's test cricket."
Though the West Indies, as a team, carried off the honours of the 14th
of December, the day belonged to Sobers. in particular. Ever since he gracefully forced Davidson square to leg for four from the very first ball, he never
looked back. The Sobers century came in only 125 minutes, with IS fours.
Even Benaud, who had been blasted by his broad bat, had ruefully to admit.
"1 have never seen a better innings than this one by Sobers. The amazing
thing was how he hit good length balls to the fence. I would think I had
put down a good length ball that would take some keeping out and then,
whizz, off to the fence it would go. And how he found the gaps." Sobers
whetted, that day, the appetite of the cricket connoisseur. Fingleton, com"aring his sterling knock to McCabe's immortal I 87 not out at Sydney in t 932
against the savage bodyline attack of Larwood, Voce and Allen and Wally
Hammond's double century against Australia at Lords in 1932, toasted Sobers
with the following tribute:
"He demonstrated the true attribute of the genius-the ability to recognise immediat.!ly whether the ball was made for a cut, a drive, a glance or a
forcing stroke. Defence didn't seem to enter into it. No bowler
can deliver on a length when batting genius is at work and it was this day.
This, surely, was the most classical innings by a lefthander in a Test since the
day of Frank Woolley."
The second day began with an onslaught on the Aussie bowling by
Alexander and Hall and before tbe West Indian innings could be mopped up,
their score had mounted to 453 all out. Davidson's 5 wickets for 13S runs
in 30 overs stood out as outstanding. When the Australians opened their
first innings with McDonald and Simpson, they promptly came under the
heavy fire of Hall. Bumpers to the right of the batsman, bumpers to the
left.-Wes Hall was in full cry. But McDonald managed a methodical 57
runs and Simpson a solid 92. The Australian score at the end of the second

