THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

31

day-196 for 3 wickets, with O'Neill and Favell batting with 28 and t
respectively.
The beginning of the third day's play saw a strangely hesitant O'Neill
but a fiery Favell. The latter hit Valentine for two successive sixes but
O'Neill struggled to get going. In the process, he was missed by Sobers off
Worrell at 47 and again, by wicket-keeper Alexander off Valentine when 54.
But from 70 on, O'Neill ran into his wonted form and got his century in 235
minutes. His second fifty was a refreshing contrast to the first. "His first
50 had the taste of corked wine about it; his second sparkled like Champagne." With O'Neill contributing an invaluable 181 and Davidson a bright
44, the Australians totaHed 505 runs but not before they had slumped from
469 for 5 to 505 allout, thanks to that tropical hurricane, Hall, who took 4
wickets for 18 with his last 3 overs. If the West Indians had lost a big
chance by missing O'Neill twice early enough in his innings, they had salvaged the day by getting the last 5 wickets in 36 minutes for only 36 runs. The
West Indies had, at close, entered on their second innings with Hunte and
Smith, when fading light stopped the play 35 minutes early.
On the 4th day, Smith and Hunte were out early but Kanhai scored a
splendid 54, as if to compensate for Sober's early exit for 14 runs, thanks to
a Davidson yorker. Worrell and Solomon batted sedately to score 65 and
47 respectively and it was mainly due to them and Kanhai that the West
Indies had on the board 259 runs for the loss of 9 wickets, with Hall and
Valentine batting with 0 each. Davidson had, again, done a wonderful job
by Australia with 5 wickets for 70 runs in 24 overs.

On the fifth and final day, Hall and Valentine resisted !tle Australian
attack for 40 minutes before Davidson bowled out Hall, to finish with 6 for
87 in 24.6 overs. In the process, the West Indies second innings score rose
to 284 all out, leaving Australia to make 233 runs to win in 312 minutesroughly a rate of 45 runs an hour. Tlle pitch was still good and had not
thrown, as was evident when Benaud and Kline were bowling, the slightest
suggestion of a picnic for Ramadhin and Valentine. When Mcdonald and
Simpson embarked on Australia's second innings, all Australia thought that
the table was set for all Australian plum pudding. But little could they
anticipate that the morning had hidden sensation in its handbag! In Hall's
second over, Simpson was held by substitute Gibbs. In Hall's next, Harvey
was caught by Sobers. The Australian score card read 2 for 7! But worse
followed when both McDonald and O'Neill left at 49, Favell at 57 and
Mackay at 92. Hall had blasted a hole right through the centre of
Australia's best batting. Dame Fortune was now smiling on the West
Indians. Hall had made a West Indian victory look certain. The crowd
DOW waited with bated breath, for Ramadhin and Valentine to turn on the

