3-2

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECJJNQU)6Y, MADRA.S

Australiall tail enders like lions on hapless ClWsUans ia ao ancient &oman
amphitheatre.
But the incredible now took a hand in the proceedings.

Benaud, after

an early fright when Ramadhin shaved his stumps with his second

ball~

settled down to keep company with Davidson, who was batting brilliantly.
They stole sharp singles, rattled up the West Indian bowlers and fielders and
pushed the score to 206, when Worrell abandoned his spin attack in a hurry
and bowled Hall with the new ball-the last card in the West Indian packat 5.30 PM with Australia needing 27 runs in 30 minutes to win, with 4
wickets in hand. There was a definite swing-over of fortune now to the
Australian side and the Brisbane crowd breathed more freely though not for
long. Davidson, who had made 80 fighting runs, was run out magnificently
at 226 by Solomon, who picked up and threw with one action, hitting the
stumps from the acute angle. Grout joined skipper Benaud-with Australia
needing 7 runs to win in 6 minutes-a small task by any assessment. But
"purple drama mounted upon purple drama." Benaud. who had batted
imperturbably for 52 runs, touched a Hall bouncer to wicketkeeper Alexander
who grabbed it with gusto. Benaud was out. Five runs now to win with 6
balls to go. Meckiff joined Grout and together they added two more runs.
But suddenly, oh, suddenly Meckiff swung at a ball from Hall and he and
Grout, after taking two runs, turned for what they thought was the third and
winning run. But ~ut came a throw from Hunte from some 90 yards away
at deep square leg and poor Grout dived for the crease in vain. He was run
out. Speaking about that magnificent throw of Hunte, Fingleton wrote,
"Never, in all cricketing time, was there a better throw from the boundary."
Had that third run materialised, Australia would have won. The two from
MeckifI's stroke now mdde the scores level-737 runs all. And now 2 balls
to go and 1 run to win !
Now came the perfect climax to this mad, surging day. Kline, the new
and last batsman in, turned Hall to leg and both he and Meckiff trotted off
for what seemed a comfortable run. But the Fates had ordained it otherwise.
From twelve yards away, completely side on, so that only one stump showed
to him, Joe Solomon swooped one handed and threw down the one stump
visible to him. This was the miracle superb. If this run out-or was it a
rope trick'?-were to be contrived, Solomon had to throw at the stump just
by instinct, which he did. MeckifI was run out for 2. Australia were all
out for 232 runs and the Brisbane Test ended as a Tie-the one and only Tie
in international Test cricket.

The final hour of play was a "delirium of ineffable excitement ineffably
prolonged." Jack Fingleton referred to the closing proceedings of the match
as "that ~ted finiahu which "had to be seen to be believed and of a

