THIRD ANNUA.L NUMBER

33

truth, those few who saw it could barely believe that what they saw was true.
It all seemed fantastically impossible-cirama piled upon drama to an
excruciating climax". Jack was quite sure that "No earthly mind could have
conceived such a finish. Had it been presented in fiction, publishers would
have told the author to take it away; it was beyond the bounds of human
credibility." Richie Benaud, the Australian skipper, was ecstatic. He wrote
later that "Never bever before have I played in a game so full of electrifying
thrills, so riddled with periods of nerve curdling strain. Disappointment and
delight, depending on the side you were on, dominated our feelings in a game
of swiftly changing fortune. This was was no Test match-it was a game of
oricket full of thrills and dismay."
As for the Roll of Honour, the game just hummed with h~roes-Davjd­
son, Sobers, O'Neill, Worrell, Hall, Benaud, Simpson and Grout. But was
it only the excellence of such individual performances which made all
Australia miss their customary beer at 6.00 PM in the evening of that historic
15th of December, 1960 and drove a West Indian journalist to send his story
of the last day's play to the cable clerk without an address upon it(1) inspite
of fortifying himself several times during the tumultuous afternoon with
double brandies? As Benaud justly queried in his "Way of Cricket""Who can say their performances were any more valuable than the breathtaking throw from the boundary by Conrad Hunte or the two sharp shooting
flicks by Joe Solomon to run out Davidson and Meckiff?" Yes-the unblievable finish could be associated with no side, much less with individual
players, despite deserving an inscription of their deeds in letters of gold in
the cricket scroll of fame. Benaud echoed the sentiments of all when he
wrote later "It is literally correct to say that neither side won this great
match. The only victor was the game of Cricket"
Those balmy days at Brisbane were, truly, Cricket's "finest hour"

,

