A WISH GRANTED???
K. M. KllWANARAYANAN
The clock tower in the market square of the little hamlet of Andau
struck twelve. It was Christmas. The little village was in a festive mood.
All roads Jed to the ancient church which was brightly illuminated. Every
now and then, a cracker broke the stillness of that chilly night. It was snowing. The usual paths were strewn with snow and it seemed as if the way-farers
were struggling to reach their destination. Tiny toddlers, covered from head
to foot, in nice warm clothing often tripped and feU-and as they got up their
cheerful faces were covered with snow-they seemed to enjoy their falls and
laughed merrily along their ways. The tall trees were dancing to the tunes
of the gentle breeze. Everywhere, there prevailed an air of eager expectancy.
Christmas. comes but once a year, but when it came it brought with it new
joys, new hopes and new aspirations. Just in front of the church was a
beautiful Christmas tree laden with presents. Many were the children gaping
eagerly at the tree, with the hope of satisfying their innocent desires.
Many were the people who came to the church for the midnight service.
Preparations for Christmas had begun much early and at last ...... the day
had come, when everyone attired in neat and beautiful robes sauntered along
to the church to seek from Him blessings for a bright future. Among them
was Jane, a sprightly young girl of seventeen. Everyone in the church looked
out for her but she could not be seen.
At last, she came, but that night she wore a sullen look. A strange
feeling of sorrow seemed to eclipse her bright face. There was a marked
difference in her gait. Yesterday, she had been all enthusiastic about
Chritsmas but today something seemed to weigh heavily upon her mind. Her
steps were heavy but sure and her eyes seemed to stare into the unseen
emptiness. Her head was bent low and she seemed not to realise the importance of the festival. She was too serious to notice her friends. Through
her face was calm and bright it was not beautiful enough to cause unnecessary attention from the bystanders. Everyone looked at her in astonishment but none had the courage to ask the reason for her grave attitude. She
went straight into the chapel and knelt at the foot of Lord Jesus.
The prayer was soon over and gathering people began to disintegrate. Most
of the villagers had left the chapel, but in that illuminated place, could be
seen this young girl kneeling still in reposeful prayer. She was not aware of
the emptiness prevailing in the chapel. Her mind seemed to be far far awayHer story a very sad one. Sorrow like joy cannot be suppressed in one's
mind for long. Tears began to trickle down her soft cheeks. Soon, her

