36

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

sobs seemed to reverberate within the four walls of the chapel and as tears
rolled down her cheeks, in the midst of sobs, one could decipher her sincere
entreaty. to God, "Cruel indeed is Fate 1 Unmerciful indeed is divine Justice.
It was 15 years ago tbat I lost my father and yesterday, alas! my mother
too. What hopes I had of making this Christmas a happy one! O! Lord!
Can I no longer enjoy the sweet caresses of parental affection. Am I to
suffer the pangs of separation from my parents? Can I no longer confer on
someone the affectionate feelings of love 1"
Left alone in this wide world, she wondered how she could face the
many trials and tribulations of life. She was an orphan and now her only
hope was gone-her void became greater-her sorrow unbearable but slowly
she left the church and took to the beaten path. It was still snowing. Small
pieces of snow struck her face but she seemed not to care for these. But just
as she passed by the well-known Oak tree, a groaning was heard as of someone in distress. Jane was too absorbed to hear this but as she moved away
the distresiing sound increased and Jane saw that a few yards away, a female
deer was lying dead and by its side a young one was weeping. Jane realised
for the first time the sorrow of parting. She could at least earn her living
but how could this tiny deer survive Soon the snow would cover it up
with a fine velvet of white and no more shall the agonising cry pain her
gentle heart. Her tender feelings and sincere emotions found vent in
tears. Jane took the deer in her hands and as she stood in the drizzling
snow, framed between the two tall pine trees, she understood and
realised that Jesus had granted her only wish.

IMPRESSIONS
J.
Delhi
Kerala
Gujerat
Mahtlrashtra
Orissa
Nagaland
Andhra
Punjab
Mysore
Bengal
Jammu & Kashmir
Assam
Uttar Pradesh
Madras
Rajasthan
Bihar
Madhya Pradesh
I. I. T.

C. CAMILLUS

Concrete structures, bustling streets.
Communists and calm retreats.
Gandhi caps and millionaires.
Marine drive and Western airs.
Gushing Mahanadi, floods and blushing benes.
Recesses, Ravines and Rowdy Rebels.
Mangoes, Mica, Charminar.
Akali Dal and Chandigarh.
Coffee, spices, Chamundi Hills.
Classicists and mundane mills.
Lakes, houseboats, eternal snow.
Oil rigs and the rare rhino.
The moonlit Taj Mahal and the laughing hyena
Gopurams, natyams, the famed Marina.
Pseudo tiger-hunts, deserts, durbars.
Uusung source of fragrant cigars.
Desperate dacoits and manganese.
Periodicals and constant • D ·s.

