*THE ENGINEER'S WAND-A FANTASY
P.

MOHAN

How would you lik.e a fairy tale? No? You are shocked? Insulted?
I agree with your sentiments. It would be presumptuous of me to expect
you, the Scientist and Engineer, to listen to a lot of nonsense about witches
and fairies. But what I offer is not the kind of fairy tale you were forced
to gulp in your kindergarten days. This is something connected with an
Engineer and the wonderful things he did.
Now, this Engineer was quite a civil Engineer. He had studied the
ways of Engineering his way tnrough Life, for a goodly period of five
years. Not content with mastering aU that the teachers had to offer~ he felt
be would do well to linger on for a sixth year, just in case he had missed
some little piece of useful information. It was in this sixth year, t1ien, that
the eventful happened.
One morning, the Engineer. as was bis wont, picked his slide rule and
notebook and ambled leisureJy towards the Institute. The path was shady,
and a cool breeze carried with it the fragrance stolen from the flowers.
Suddenly, out of nowhere, there popped up a fairy, aU in a flutter, her
lovely wings flapping like a sail caught in a wild gale•
.. Dear Engineer'\ her voice tingled as she spoke.
you help me 1" .

U

Oh. please, won't

Now, our Engineer was a gallant soul, filled from top to toe with the
most chivalrous impulses that ever man was blest witb. However. be was
also a shrewd man. Not for nothing bad he learned aU his Economics,
Physics and Applied Mechanics. Were they not intended for just such
an emergency as this, when shapes like fairies popped out of nowhere!
He made a smart, swift calculation that convinced him that the creature
standing before him was a genuine fairy, and not one of those strange
optical illusions which raise doubts in a person's mind regarding his sanity.
It was only then he asked her what she would have of him.
c.

Oh dear, I've lost my wand, and without it

r shan't

be allowed to

enter the gates of Fairyland. What shall I do? to
The poor creature was frantic, as she stood there, wrio$ins her dainty
bands and shedding pitit\ll t~s.

