42

INDIA.N INSTITUTE OF TBCHNOLOGY, MA.DRAS

The Engineer strode into the dark hall of the Civil Engineering
Laboratory. He took his slide rule in one hand and a pencil in the
other. Only a few swift movements of his nimble fingers could be discerned
by even the most watchful observer. But, through his mind, ah, what
a procession of strange symbols and weird formulae marched on, as he marshalled the bits of information collected over a span of five years!
Ml C,

G~,

F= m x a, functions of conglomerated soils multiplied by

deep foundation bed slopes, etc., etc., they raced by in quick succession
as the Engineer calculated calculated, calculated"..
And so the Engineer sweated amid his equations, theories, and theses.
Something had to come out of aU this brilliant industry. And it did come
out, as you will soon sec.
The plans were ready, the blue-prints were prepared and all was set for
the final stroke. The oiled German machines stood expectantly on their hinges
and greedily devoured the materials the Engineer fed into their gear-filled
jaws. My word it was a bewitching sight! Our Engineer appeared like
a sorcerer of medieval times amid his eerie goblins. And the confidence with
which his hands moved t Not a movement was uncalculated, not an eyelash
stirred, until the entire project was completed.
There it was, at last, entirely his own creation. It gave him a pang" to
think that he would soon have to part with bis handiwork; but it was only
for a moment. The thought of the poor fairy drove away all ungentle
thoughts from his simple mind.
Ah, there she was, now, her own delightful little self, the mischievous
creature, with a smile that said, "look, how happy I am I "
.. Oh, I've found my wand, Mr. Engineer, and thank you so very much
for your kindness," she tittered.
For just a tiny second, the Engineer's heart was heavy, for all his
labour was gone to naught. But, like the true gentleman he was, his
buoyant spirits revived at the thought of the good fortune of the little fairy •
.. I'm so glad you found your own wand n, he said, "But I have one
all ready for you the next time you bappen to lose it ".
With that, he withdrew the silken drapery that covered his creation.
The poor fairy was aghast. A fine-looking beam of monstrous propor..
dons beamed from its situation on the table.

