A NOVEL SOUVENIR.
DR. V.

ANANTARAMAN.

Automobile accidents are the greatest of nightmares for our parents and
beloveds when we go over to the States for higher education; but some oldtimers among the Indian students in any American campus will reassure you
by revealing the brighter side of the picture. U Get involved in an accident",
one of them will advise you, and add nonchalantly, "but escape with minor
injuries", and appear to be philosophising when he concludes with a grin,
" the ex~rience wiH be highly rewarding". What this Indian philosopher
attempts to impress on you is a strictly materialistic approach to this
philosophic puzzle. The United States is a land of insurance against all
conceivable risks, and you may hope to be paid fabulous sums by way of
compensation for injuries you might suffer from auto-accidents. By way of
an illustration, if you can manage to escape an accident with a fractured arm
(minor one, mind you, and I don't know how you can manage it). perhaps
you may confidently hope to pocket 25 thousand rupees (5000), the rate of
compensation depending, of course, on whether your arm is left or right or
whether it is that of a physician or a professor, a pianist or a playboy. In
India also, we occasionally hear of such compensations being claimed by
eminent medical men when they get their fingers crushed by the window
shutters of the first class compartments of our Railways. I am yet to hear
of any compensation for similar mischief done by the shutters of a third class
compartment !
As the President of the India Association, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, 1 went to attend the Milwankee International Club Day accompanied by my room-mate and two Indian girls who were to give a music
performance at Milwankee that evening. The car was driven by another
friend of mine, an Indian graduate student of the Milwankee School of
Engineering.
We were driving downtown, Milwankee through many traffic junctions
in succession; perhaps all of us, particularly our driver, were thinking of
the beer that made Milwaukee famous. When we were at North 11th street
and West Highland Avenue we recorded a severe seismographic shock; no
sooner I recovered from it by rudely coming into contact with something

