46

INDMN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOWGY, MADRAS

painfully hard than I felt the impact of a projectile on my back. I found
myself covered with dirt in the middle of the square some 20 feet away from
our car. and scrambling on to my feet with all anxiety as to the fate of my
friends I realized the situation.
A car driven by a typical American coming with considerable speed
from the side road to our left hit us perpendicularly against the bonnet of
our car, and while his car had overturned with its passengers, its impact
:flung open the door by my side, and I and the girl seated next to me were
ejected out like two rockets one after another. When the booster rocket
sent us out, unattached as we were, I went first, and she came after, and
when I hit the ground, she hit me on my back. Believe me, I was happy to
be a cushioned buffer between her and mother earth when thoughtlessly, as
women are, she was coming to a head on collision with Her. Others were
safe except that the shock deprived the other girl of her speech for half-anhour, and it took two more days for her to regain her sweet voice with which
she used to delight many an audience.
As we were assessing the damage to ourselves and consoling and
comforting one another, the Ambulance came screaming on the scene; but
I managed somehow to pull the girls off and took off in a cab to the nearest
hospital in my anxiety to escape from press photographers lest by some
mischance a picture may appear ultimately in the American Reporter in
India scaring our people at home out of wits. Anyway the American Police
was efficient; they took a picture of the accident, hunted us out in the
hospital and gathered all details, and inspite of our earnest requests to keep
our names out from any publication, the next day the Milwankee Journal
presented us with a Souvenior in the form of a beautiful picture of the
accident with our names and description of our nationality and academic
status captioning it.
The ~portant point to be noted in this narrative is that we "managed
to escape" with "minor injuries". We returned to Madison to tell the
story, happy over the fact that we were not dead or maimed for life. Some
of the old timers advised me to keep on limping for a week at least for the
insurance people were expected to call on us during tbat period. Actually
there was no need for it for my wounds were painful enough to prevent me
from moving out of my apartment. Besides I had a swollen face and a
frightening bandage around my eye which was stitched. They congratulated
us on our good luck: they hoped that we would each get atlcast
Its. 10,000 I

