so

INDIA.N INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

"I am in 1970? May I listen 1"
"Sure. Stick um hand out--and grab".
Squeak inched over to a "window" and gingerly stuck his hand out.
It disappeared and landed on a fluffy mass, which he clutched. The mass
immediately jerked out of his hand, and, startled he pulled in his paw. To
his surprise, he saw a black ribbon ensconced in his rough palm. "Haw,
how," bellowed the rug. "Your landed topside of a femaJe with a black
pony-tail. And boy! didya pull off ze ribbon when she screamed aDd jerked
free. Yikes listen. The lecturer is asking her to stay back after class. By
the gleam in his eye I can bet to any adds that he wantsa make a date! Haw,
the skunk!"
•• Youmea.n to say that a girl is listening to a lecture in the I.I.T.? In

19701"
"Sure. There sure are girls in I.I.T."
" Boy! What I wouldn't give to he there in I.I.T. in 1910. I want out,
now. Give me my fingers. I want to go. 'Bye"
Squeak stepped out into glaring light. The professor's back was still
turned towards him, so he sat down quietly. AtJeast, he thought, I am in
one piece; Soon the worries of his day to day'routine made him forget the
wonderful episode of the martian mushroom. About seven or eight years
later Squeak joined the teaching staff of the I.I.T.• Madras, as a qualified
lecturer in Physics. It was always a pleasure to lecture to the D batch of
the First year students because he felt that a girl with a black pony tail was
all eyes and ears for him. But he could not reason why she always sat at
the back of the class. One day he was explaining the. principles of gyroscopic motion when pony-tail let out a scream and slewed her head around.
" What is the matter, Miss--1"
" Somebody puUed my hair," she pleaded.

"My ribbon! 1--1"

A beautiful opportunity, thought Pipsqueak.
.. Will you please stay back after class? thank you."
Squeak hoped the freshers had not noticed the gleam in his eye.
,~

As I was saying, this is called the cone of mutation ............_',t

