THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

asymptotic branches. all enabling animals and children to learn co geometry ..
from nature. Some trees will be having fruits hanging down forming a
" simple pendulum" on a tree top. They will require only inert gas for
existence.
The sea shall contain H pure" water and will occupy only !th of the
earth solving space scarcity for the population. The waves shall be periodic
and regular. How will men and animals be?
III

"

..

III

•

Man !...... Man judges man by nationality, colour, creed and caste-How
noble in reason! He wants to live by murdering others for which he invents
mighty war-weapons-How infinite in faculty! Man goes around in tweed
suits and lovely garments clothing hatred and lovely garments clothing
hatred and jealously-in form, in moving how express and admirable! His
actions are most hypocritical, selfish and untrustworthy- in action how
like an angel! He is nothing but a devil in incarnation-in apprehension
how like a God I The beauty of the world spoils the beauty of the
universe.
Why did God give man "variety "?-various colours, forms shapesto make man's life a bit more interesting, definitely not to make life more
dangerous. He thought man can enjoy more; He thought man will develop
competition whereby he will advance more and more towards a happy and a
peaceful existence. But alas! What is it we see today?

•

*

...

.

.

Hence "my" world will have no variety. All men will be of the same
colour, same feature and same form. There shall be no nationality, no
creed, no caste and no names; man and woman are the only two names.
All women will be beautiful and alike; hence no problem of choice will
arise! Men will be of equal intellect which will be of a supreme order.
They shall inhabit earth and moon. Children and the old shall live on
earth while newly married couple will go to moon to have a real "honeymoon".
The form of man will not be as it is today. He will be a U semirocket" man. Controlled by self-will he can assume the form of a rocket
when his internal systems namely heart, lungs, etc. will occupy one half of
the entire body, the other half becoming a fuel chamber. A" turbine"

