56

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

And thank God, we have not yet converted our villages into cities.
Writes Hans Pragear, in a little book on Gandhi:

"Our civilization hides behind a very virile mask our moral weakness, our fear. We are no longer warriors, but mere servants of
lifeless machines. Heroic war has turned away... Soon it will no
longer be the men who will take up arms, but the machines which
will take up men. That which makes the pride of man, his
inventive genius, will become his shame for having created machinery which prevents his defending himself any more by his own
strength" .
And Gandhiji writes:
"The fashion nowadays is to take for granted that whatever
America and England are doing is good enough for us ... War has
become a matter of money and resourcefulness in inventing weapons of destruction. It is no longer a matter of personal bravery
or endurance".
Even Gandhiji realised that "the soldier fills the recruiting ranks because he
believes that there is no other means of livelihood. The Government has
made the profession of killing attractive by a system of special rewards. and
by a system of skilfully devised punishments has made it well nigh impossible for the soldier, once be is ~ to get out without difficulty", (Young
India).
Today we are purchasing aircraft-carriers, bombers and what not from
others. Even if we believed in violence, this is not the way to prepare
ourselves. It is child's logic that for victory in war, we have to possess
deadlier weapons, unknown to the enemies, than what they possess. When
are we, who are unable to finance our development plans, going to catch up
with the rest in the race for new armament which is quite an expensive one'?
And we can be sure that one of the power blocs will step in to use our
motherland as a military base in its patriotic struggle for existence in the
event of the next world war breaking out. In short, prepare we must to
resist aggression; at present we are fiddling with preparations for violent
resistance and it is going to prove to be disastrous. The only way then open
to us, and which conforms to our national heritage, is that of non-violent
resistance. At first ours will be the non-violence of the weak; but we must
begin somewhere.
It is worth pondering whether the present emphasis on modern scientific
eduction in India has any meaning in the midst of undiminishing-tather

