THE GESTETNER CIVILISATION
Dr. Th. RAMACHANDRAN

Prime Minister Nehru claims often that we have advanced very rapidly
from a bullock-cart civilisation to a bicycle one. This may be true. But
what is certain is that we have left behind the palm-leaf and .. writing-nail"
bureaucracy, and after a brief pause in the quill-pen and paper stage,
have jet-propelled ourselves into the wonderful and luxurious Gestetner
age, or civilisation if you like, bureaucratically speaking, of course.
We may be a poor people, but we can certainly afford such things as
Gestetners en maS,'le and use them with a vengeance. And as for filing
cabmets ...... , well. let filing cabinets be filing cabinets and Jet us not hear
any more of it.
Suppose you want to go to the cinema and want to ask your friends to go
with you, well, where is the difficulty as long as your gestetner is there? Get
a stencil cut and send each of your friends a few copies of your proposal,
repeating the process, if necessary, at regular five-minute intervals. You
may even get gestetnered replies for your query I

In olden days if a bank manager wished to inform his employees about
the disbursement of salary cheques, he used to have a short circular typed
out and circulated. In fact, even before the circular left the typewriter every
one knew of the coming event. But today, thanks to the Gestetner, the same
manager does not have to depend on such efficient and simple means. All
he has to do is to make use of his Gestetner and soon every employee will
have atleast a dozen copies of a foolscap-size circular!
In the pre-gestetner days, if I had to hold a periodical test for fifteen
students, I would have had to write the two or even three questions on the
blackboard and use up so much of my time and energy, not to mention the
enormous quantities of chalk needed. I might even have had to read the
questions over (0 the boys owing to my poor handwriting. TO-day all that
is simplified. To make sure I have enough papers, I ask for twenty and I
can bank on at least thirty crisp, weU-gestetnered question papers, with
perhaps only the 'o's and 'e 's and sometimes the 'b 's and 'd's duly
filled in with ink, which ·can be easily explained to the boys.

I could go on thus, extolling the virtues of the gestetner, and even hope
for some sort of commission on the sales for this advocacy. Even if I got a
modest 1%commi$sion. I should soon be a rich man, QOnsidering the ~umb·

