A PORTRAIT OF NEHRU
M. A. ABDUL KHADI!Il

It has been said that Mr. Nehru is a complex, ever elusive personality.
He is loved, revered and criticised, but all agree about his pre-eminence.
"Nehru ", said Walter Lippman, "is certainly the greatest figure in Asia".
It is therefore difficult to assess and analyse the qualities of a great man who
inspires diverse sentiments.
Pandit Iawaharld.l Nehru is a contradictory character. Still slender,
bandsome, and energetic at seventy-two, he looks taller than his 5 ft. 8 inches,
works seventeen hours a day, year in and year out, and has had only a six
weeks' vacation from his tiresome job since 1947.
Personally fastidious, from the fresh rosebud in his buttonhole each
morning to the silken handkerchief tucked in his right sleeve, he is most at
home with the teeming millions. An agnostic who "is not interested in
religion" he is the leader of one of the world's most religious people. He is
a socialist with well built antipathy to capitalism, but most of bis governing
colleagues are conservative businessmen. We scarcely remember the 1947
warning of Sir Winston Churchill that "we are turning over India to men of
straw, the caste Hindu, Mr. Nehru of whom, in a few years, no trace will
remain". Fortunately Churchill was wrong, and Nehruji remains what he
was fourteen years ago, the biggest man in India and the idol of our people.
Jawaharlal Nehru is not a mere political boss. For the people of India,
be is a national symbol, almost the very embodiment of India, and receives
from his countrymen probably more unbounded hero worship than any
other national leader in the world. Nay! He is an intern:ltional figure, who
commands respect and admiration of all. As a matter of fact, this annoys
and disgusts Nehru. He knocks the very people who try to kiss his feet,
swings his ivory-tipped teakwood swagger stick at crowds, which come too
close I Yet he seeks out crowds, giving as many as ten speeches a week when
he is at Delhi; and many more when he is travelling. He is very shorttempered and often so irritable that he would explode with anger at a misplaced tea-cup.

None of these, nor the fact that many do not even understand the language he addresses them in, bothers his audience. They have come not to
hear him but for his 'darshan '. the spiritual impact of being in the presence
of a great personality. "Nehru ", says one American familiar with these
sp«:taQles, "is the opium of Indian masses and they ar~ his "

