THE QUAINT WAYS IN BRITISH PARLIAMENT
S.

SESHADRI

What interests everybody in the British Parliament is its odd ways of
extreme formalities; formalites mixed with extreme absurdities, and formalities having no connection to the present day things. The unique chamber of
the House of Commons was gutted during the German air raids and was
re-constructed in the old style. It provides only 437 seats though there are
nearly 625 members. The original idea of constructing it into a small
compact chamber was that it facilitated easy conversation and prevented the
feeling of being lost in a vast hall when the business was not such as to call
for a full house.
The ceremony of secll'ching the house is the next attractive quaint way
which commences on the morning of the beginning of the new Parliament.
On th~ early morning of this particular day, twelve yeomen of the guard
from St. James palace march to the Houses of Parliament with all the adorn
ments of Tudor regalia, having lanterns of the pattern of 1600 in their hands,
headed by the custodian of the palace who is the Great Chamberlain. These
yeomen penetrate through each and every comer of the Parliament chambers.
They go in and out of the coal bins, furnaces, gas pipes, steam pipes and the
rubbish rooms of the Parliament building. Keeping their eyes to the front,
they are looking for kegs of gun-powder placed in some out-of-the-way
comer by the enemies of the King.
Why such a search for gun-powder and that, too, in the early hours of
the beginning of the new Parliament? It traces back to the following incident.
During the time of James I a certain Guy Fawkes, a young Englishman, who
had served in the Spanish Army was bribed by some conspirator to blow up
the Parliament building. The young man was exteremely successful in
placing 20 kegs of gun powder in the basement of the building covered with
kindling wood. It was the plan to blow up when the Parliament was about
to meet. But somebody very unco-operative with the conspirators but very
loyal to the King revealed it to the authorities who, without wasting a single
minute, arrested Fawkes in the cellar with a key in his pocket on the morning
of the explosion day (5th November, 1605). To avoid the acts of newly
hailing future Fawkes' and as a precautionary step, it was ordained that a
thorough check·up be made before the beginning of a new Parliament.
S»

