66

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

Inspite of the facts that the abode was since changed, that all the nook
and comers of Parliament buildinS are brilliantly illuminated with electric
lamps, the yeomen still continue their rounds with flickering lanterns in their
bands during the early hours of the beginning of the new Parliament. After
a thorough search, they send a report to the effect that all is well for which
they are rewarded with a repast of cakes and ale ending with a toast to the
King. At present also, 5th of November is treated as a day of festival and
its importance may well be judged from the following well-known rhyme:
"Remember remember the fifth of November,
The gun-powder treason aad plot
For I know no good reason why the gun-powder treason
Should ever by us be forgot"
Another peculiar system is while prayer is being read during daiJy
sittings of the session, the Members tum their face to the wall. This idea
has got its origin in the usages in the past days when the Members knelt at
t,peir benches during prayers turning their backs to the Chaplain.
Another thing attracting our attention is the use of the Mace. The
Mace, a wooden staff with a crown on its head, is a symbol of Roy31
Command and protection. Unless it is placed on the table, the House of
Commons will not function. It silently reposes on the table until the House
adjourns. This has got its origin in the fact that when the Parliament was
divided into two Houses, the King began to attend the House of Lords only.
Since the House of Commons had no king to attend their House, the above
symbol was devised. It is very much interesting to see in the history of the
British Parliament, that once very much provoked and exasperated at the
action of Parliament continuing their existence, Oliver Cromwell in the
year 1653 entered the House with his military retinue. On seeing the Mace on
1)le table, he shouted" Take away that bauble '~. Immediately tb.~ mace dis.appeared. But it was soon brought bapk again.

The official pew: On the right side of the Speaker is the small
enclosure in which important officials will be seated to aid the confronted
ministers when- questioning time starts. These officials colloquially are
known as official pew. Hence the cynical assertion that ministers are merely
the spokesmen of their professional subordinates and the House of Commons
is merely a hall of echoes for the sayings of the Clerks and Secretaries.
The in1iuence of hats has much to do with the House of Commons. If
a Member wants to reserve his seat whOft the House is in its fu11 swing, he
can do ~ by placing his bat . . JUs seat. 6therwiu, his scat WGuld QC ocou-

