THIRD ANNUAl., NUMMER
pied ~y so.nebedy .else~ and he has to st:a.n4 all ~ w.bile, if he returns to his
$eat

after aaviJlg some leis.,ure outside.

The humour of reservation of seats with the aid of hats had reached its
apex, many years ago when Irish Nationalists in the House of Commons consisting of nearly 100 Members, wanted to hav~ their seats reserved well in
advance during the first day of a new sessio,n. They would send one of their
friends to reserve their seats. This « reserving" friend, with 100 hats of
vq.rying sizes and measure would appear early in the morning and deposit
each hat in a particular seat. But the Tory Members, tbough enjoying the
humour, brought a protest to the effect that each Member would be entitled
to reserv., his ~t alone and no body eI~'s.
The usage of swords has got an unfriendly attitude for the use in the
House of Commons. Anything resembling a sword should not be
brought into the House of Commons not even a drawing room rapier. This
prohibition had its seed in the past days when knights permitted with swords
would not lag behind in crossing their swords at a heated discussion. At
present, the oddest function is to receive the petition. The Member would
read out the contents and the number of signatures obtained in support to it.
Thereupon the Speaker asks the Member to drop the document into a sack
which hangs to the left of the chair. These petitions are supposed to be examined thoroughly by the Committee on Petitions but it never does. Though
petition has no importance in the modem day procedute, it is given priority
to all other urgent business for it is traditional to do so.
The House adjourns in a peculiar way. The House of Commons prefers
its session in the darkness. At times, the sitting will be continued through
out the night without any adjournment. It is the voice "Who goes home"
from the principal door-keeper which remind the Members of their homes
and their late sitting. They would immediately pack off to their homes one
after another.
This crying out of "who goes home" had its origin in the interesting
incident of the past when the undeveloped and unelectrified roadways were
places for the brigands, highway robbers and rowdies who might take any
opportunity to kill anybody. To defend the members from such dangers,
well-anned yeomen would accompany them all the way to their homes. When
the squad of yeomen arrives, the door-keeper used to shout "Who goes
home" whereupon the minister would go with the yeomen. Though all the
abO'Ve practices were left off as LOBdon h.as ~me a gJeat metropolitan ei~
flooded with electric lights and provide<i witb best police protection, the
doorkeeper even to-day raises his voice "who goes home" echoing the hall
to adjourn the session as his pred~or.s did it 300 years ago. Last. but

