THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

67

pied \)y so1ftebody .elseJ and he has to stan4 aD ~ while, if he ~turns to his
seat after baving SODle leisure outside.
The humour of reservation of seats with the aid of hats had reached its
.pex, many years ago when Irish Nationltlists in the House of Commons consisting of nearly 100 Members, wanted to have their seats reserved well in
advance during the first day of a Dew session. They would send one of their
friends to reserve their seats. This" reserving" friend, with 100 hats of
varying sizes and measure would appear early in the morning and deposit
each hat in a particular seat. But the Tory Members, thougb enjoying the
humour, brought a protest to the effect that eacb Member would be entitled
to reserv:~ hi& ~t alone and no body else's.
The usage of swords has got an unfriendly attitude for the use in the
House of Commons.
Anything resembling a sword should not be
brought into the House of Commons not even a drawing room rapier. This
prohibition had its seed in the past days when knights permitted with swords
would not Jag behind in crossing their swords at a heated discussion. At
present, the oddest function is to receive the petition. The Member would
read out the contents and the number of signatures obtained in support to it.
Thereupon the Speaker asks the Member to drop the document into a sack
which hangs to the left of the chair. These petitions are supposed to be examined thoroughly by the Committee on Petitions but it never does. Though
petition has no importance in the modern day procedure, it is given priority
to all other urgent business for it is traditional to do so.
The House adjourns in a peculiar way. The House of Commons prefers
its session in the darkness. At times, the sitting will be continued through
out the night without any adjournment. It is the voice "Who goes borne"
from the principal door-keeper which remind the Members of their homes
and their late sitting. They would immediately pack off to their homes one
after another.
This crying out of ., who goes home" had its origin in the interesting
incident of the past when the undeveloped and unelectrified roadways were
places for the brigands, bighway robbers and rowrues who might take any
opportunity to kill anybody. To defend the members from such dangers,
well-anned yeomen would accompany them all the way to their homes. When
the squad of yeomen arrives, the door-keeper used to shout "Who goes
home" whereupon the minister would go with the yeomen. Though all the
above practices were left off as London has he(¥)mc a great metropoljtan eif6t
flooded with electric lights and provide4 with best police protection, the
doorkeeper even to-day raises his voice "who goes home" echoing the hall
to adjourn the session as his predClX:SSOfS did it 3.00 years ago. Last, but

