THE CHEMISTRY OF ENGINEER
V.

KOTEESWAllAN

In the midst of the more complex studies of the Chemistry of metals and
non-metals, let us see something about this (metal or non-metal or both!)Engineer."

History: It has been known for a very long time and evidences of
existence even in the most ancient civilizations are to be easily found.
Occurrence: It is more commonty found in the free state throughout
the world and in places where something has to be built or designed. Along
with others it is found as Engineers and Architects, Engineers and Builders,
Engineers and Surveyors, etc. Production is high and is increasing at an
enormous rate. Cammon occurrence in India are Madras, Bombay, Delhi.
Calcutta and all other major cities.
Laboratory method of preparation: Since the time taken is very long and
the process is a bit costly only mass production is prevalent.
( i) Methods of Manufacture: There are two major methods. (a) Diploma
method and (b) Degree method. The other method by experience
is not very safe and hence not much used. The procedure for both
the methods is the same and runs as follows.
( ii) Extraction from ores: Native ores having at least 25% of the necessary

ingredient "intelligence" are taken and are thoroughly examined
by expert committees. It is there that they undergo preliminary
washing, sieving and Croth :floation. Due to the differential
sieving adopted in the froth :floation process, heavier particles,
which settle down are accepted while the froth is skimmed off.
(iii) Smelting:

The selected quantity is then melted in a furnace for' one
year at the rate of S! days per week under a pressure which is
slightly more than the atmospheric pressure. At the end of the
first six months, they are partially dried and again smelted as
before. At the end of 10 months they are thoroughly dried for
a period of 2 months. The whole process is repeated twice
(i.e., total number of years amounting to three) the pressure being
increased gradually.

(IV J

Concentration: The concentration process is begun even at the end of
the second year using all sizes of filter papers, known as "selection

