10

INDIA.N INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. MADRAS
examinations tt and "re-examinations" in technical language and
about 80% of the pure product filters. out. It is seen that due to
some inefficiency in the process impure particles also come in the
filtrate which is accepted without any question. The filtrate is
then dried.

The final smelting process takes two years and is done under enormous
pressure and it is again filtered in vacuum. It is a 85% pure product by this
time.

It could be purified more by extensive training in foreign countries or
in the Higher technogical institutes to an extent of 90% but 100% pure
product is obtained only after constant use of it for a few years.

Properties: (a) Pbysical: At ordinary temperature it is a semi-solid
substance, soft (certain varieties are a bit hard) and malleable, varying in
colour and smell. Taste-not known but not to be tasted. In general it has
a melting tendency but is not easily boiled. It is easy to handle but should
not be played abollt with.
Chemical properties: Insoluble in all substances though it putrefies when
buried. It is non-inflammable. The particular variety called Civil Engineer
has affinity towards the Architect and both combine under certain conditions
while proper care should be taken to avoid explosions. It is highly active
and designs and builds machinery, buildings, dams, electric projects, etc.,
with consumable skill in the presence of money as a catalyst•
.Allotropic modificationl: There are many known and to name some we
have the Civil Engineer. Mechanical Engineer, Electrical Engineer, etc. The
different allotropes are produced more or less in the same manner during
the first three years. The last two years bring about the difference seen in
them.
Detection: There is a marked tendency for specific allotropes to associate with specific places. Thus the Civil Engineer could be found in places
where building construction is going on, an Electrical Engineer in any Electricallaboratory or project, a Mechanical Engineer in prominent workshops.
Textile Mills, etc. It can also be identified by the number of diplomas and
degrees such as B.E., B.Tech.• B.Sc. (Engg.), M. E., etc., found on the
visiting cards and name plates.
Uses: Widely used in industrially advanced countries both for consulting and executing. Most commonly (and cheaply) and abundantly used in
all big projects.

