THIRD ANNUAL NUMBER

15

These objectives can be achieved by providing facilities for sports,
athletics, recreation, debates. music recitals. dramas, photography. mountain
-climbing, swimming. rowing, publication of magazines, newspapers, etc. A
variety of such activities may be mentioned and organised depending upon
available talents, resources and finances. The gymkhana should be able to
afford some extra-curricular activities for every student.
With a view to developing extra-curricular activities, the Director
appointed Gymkhana Committc.!s in November, 1961. The work carried
out by these Committees is reported elsewhere in this third annual Number.
But some aspects of this gym khana, not reported elsewhere, are given below:
DESIGNS

The gymkhana committee adopted in December, 1961 the design for the
gymkhana flag, uniform, a tie and colours.

The Flag shall be of silk with a length to breadth ratio of 3: 2. cream
colour for the upper diagonal half; maroon colour for the lower diagonal half
with a white strip in between maroon and cream and the Institute crest in the
centre.
The uniform for ceremonial occasions shall be white trousers, white shirt.
navy blue coat with Institute crest and tie.
The tie shaH be dark blue colour with three stripes of maroon, white
and cream colours diagonally, each of t" width in the top half of the tie.
The tie may also be presented at ceremonial functions to distinguished persons
as a mark of honour.
Institute colours shall consist of an Institute Crest on dark navy blue cloth
with maroon, white and cream colour stripes of f' width on the both sides
of the crest and with year of presentdtion at the bottom. Institute colours
are for presentation to students who bring credit to the Institute by excellence
in sports and other extra-curricular activities. Award of colours every year
shall be limited to only one or two persons of outstanding ability. If the
same student secures the colours for more than once, the years in which he
secures the colours shall be indicated thereon.
The flag, ties etc. and the colours are shown.
SPORTS FACILITIES

During the last two years, it has been able to make arrangements for
only some of the Sports items, as we were depending on borrowed or hired

