REPORT ON THE INTER-I.I.T. SPORTS MEET
Great enthusiasm and keen anticipation were a glow in aU hearts as
the Bombay Express steamed through gloomy tunnels and luxuriant fields,
approaching Bombay, where the First Inter-I.I.T. Sports and Athletic
Meet was to be held. We were the first among the visiting teams to reach
Powai followed in the subsequent days by the Kanpur and Kharagpur teams.
Spacious and comfortable accommodation, cool and pleasant climate coupled with pleasing food exalted our spirits and hence it was with immense
confidence that we took the field against Kharagpur in the opening match in
Football. The first few moments told their tale. Being an older and senior
institution and having the advantage of a good strength of students to choose
their eleven from (not to mention their size!) Kharagpur won over us and
went even further to beat Bombay and clinch the Football Trophy.
In Hockey, however, we were fortunate in that we stood third inspite of
not losing even a single match. This time it was the spin of the coin that
went against us. Bombay won the Trophy and Kharagpur were second.
Bombay also won the Table Tennis Trophy while we were the Runners-up.
Kharagpur annexed both Basketball and Volleyball Trophies while
Bombay stood secound and we third inspite of offering the stiffest resistance
in all the competitions.
Coming to the field of athletics, here too we had our glorious moments.
Whereas Tanhund of III year annexed the Hammer Throw, Jacob Dominic
also of the III year won both the long jump and Hop Step and Jump to
emerge as the second best athlete of the Meet. Others to get a place were
S. A. Aleem of the II year who stood third in 100 metres, 200 metres and
the long jump and Hop Step and Jump, and E.A. Olia, also of the II year,
who was third in the 400 metres run. Our relay team stood second and in
the overall championship, as if according to seniority, we were third behind
Kharagpur and Bombay.
Our display in cultural activities was perhaps the best of all. A special
word of praise was showered, by no less a person than the President of the
Meet himself for our grand performance in the Hindi Drama "Nawab
Saheb".
Too SOOD to express, the Meet had come and gone, ever ,to haunt us in
our memories for the sportsmanship team-spirit and keen competition it had
provided making all happy and proud and embedding deeply into
our hearts the spirit to exhibit a much improved display in the none too
distant future.

S; A. ALB!!M
Sportl Secretary,

12

