N. C. C. RIFLES
REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1961-62.

The academic year under report witnessed the formation of an additional
Company over and above the one that was in position during the previous
year. The strength of the unit was 364 as against 204 of last year. The
NCC Schedule consisted of 2 parades of a duration of H hours each every
week. I am glad to report that our NCC Stores and outfit have become selfsufficient.
We had the privilege of sending 100 Cadets to participate in the ceremonial parade on the 5th November 1961 at the Marina grounds on the
occasion of the 13th Anniversary of the inauguration of the NCC.
Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, Vice-Chancellor of University of Madras, took the
salute. The parade performance of our Cadets was adjudged as best in the
2 Madras group.
The next milestone to be reached by the NeC Unit during the year was
the participation by the Institute in the NCCR Annual Trainning Camp, at
Tiruchirapalli between 27-12-1961 and 9-1-1962 with a contingent of 45
Cadets. The hard work and the disciplined behaviour of our Cadets made a
lasting impression on many. To the Institute NCC Unit feU the honour of
winning the Rolling Shield for Drill competition. The Quarter Guard of
our No. 23 Coy was adjudged the best in the camp. In ac)rnowledgement,
the Camp Commandant Maj F. A. Lewin was gracious enough to send out a
special letter of appreciation to our Director commending the performance of
our Cadets.
Another feather to our cap was added when our Senior Under Officer
R. Rajamani was selected to participate in the Republic Day parade at New
Delhi on 26-1-1962. This is the first time that our Institute was represented
QJ. the State Coptingent.

On the 26th of January '62. the Republic Day, a colourful ceremonial
parade was held,at our Institute parade ground with 130 cadets participating.
The Director, Prof. B. Sengupto, took the salute. He applauded the
performance of the young NCC Unit and wished it greater triumphs in the
years to follow.

'B' aud "e' Cortificate Examinations were held at our parade ground 01\

4-2-1962. Maj C.L. fonQOQa of tho Fint Madras Group pr~sided,

Th~

