Issue No. 2

(1)

Date: B.2.19Bl.

EDITORIAL
There have been two suggestions towards a new name for
the wall magazine. One is 'Mandak Raag', by our Warden;
the other, 'Mandak Drag', by Pondy and Co. Both suggestions
have been put aside since making a new title block is a gig
pain.
Do pass on anything suitable for the Rag before it gets
difficult to get it published.
Any suggestions regarding the
Wall Magazine may be given to room no. 152.
lIT PILLS
lIT seems to be the number one place for pills. Now and
then guys freak out pilling, but pilling in prohibited areas
(Oops, sorry!) staff quarters touched a new high during MG-Bl.
I was one of the ~olunteers who had (involuntarily?)
volunteered to volunteere. Initially my job was to go round
the campus selling tickets for the 'professional' dance recital
of Hema Malini and the music concert by Shivakumar Sharma ahd
Zakir Hussain. And I tell you, it wasn't all fun and games, but
it had its amusing moments, nevertheless.
The profs' houses at first sight seemed damn encouraging.
Raju had already told us all the 'con' talk.
Ring! Ring! Ah, somebody is in. A face comes to the
window - looks at us suspiciously, and then, seeing the thick
wad of tickets, opens the door.
y
I start off, 'Madam, good evening, we are selling tickets
for the .••••••
Yeah! The film actress ••.•••• He is the
best artiste on the •••••.• blah, blah!' Five minutes nonstop, and then she says with a 'sweet' siMie smile, 'Oh! but
we won't be in station.' At the first house, like a nut, I
believed the crap, but later on I realised that half the lIT
population was 'out of station' from Sat. night to Mon. morn.
Some enthu for 'outstation trips'.
Women's Lib, they say, but Machaan, in lIT there is no
hope for WL. 'I cannot say anything, my hubby ain't at home, 1
was a very common one. Some said they'd get tickets from the
Depts., but according to reliable sources, no tickets were issued
to the Depts.
But the best experience was in the N.E. corner of the
camput. In a Prof's house, I rang the bell and stood there, by
then well versed in the art of bumming dough from 'toughies'.
This 8 - 10 year-old kid comes along and opens the door and
gives a sly grin. I tell him, 'Could you call your Momma or
Poppa?'
(Note heavy courtesy.) He says, 'Yeah, but what do
you want?' Taken aback, I told him that I was selling tickets
for ..••.••
Very casually he banged the door in my face, saying,
'I'll just check up if Mom's at home.'
Special reference has to be made of this very active prof.

