c:s)
TO

NANDAKUMAR

WITH

LOVE

Gen Sec has bought a new bike.
Gen Sec is resigning.
Can you~put two and two together?
For the past few days, Nandakumar has been in a euphoric
elated state of mind. I asked him the cause of his bubbling enthu.
'I'm resigning,' he joyfully announced.
Mandak Rag: But why?
Nandakumar: I'm not satisfied with the job. I get all the dirty
work. (Does he mean the bogs?)
MR
What about the TV?
NK
Actually, if I wanted, I could have got it repaired
a month back (!).
(Shouldn t t that have been in the
future tense?) But I didn't take interest in it.

***

Psst!. Overheard conversation, same day:
Nandakumar: Krishna, do you have a 50-pip coin?
Krishna
What for?
NK
To ring up someone to repair the TV.
K
Sorry, I don't have one.
NK
It's cool, I don't know whom to ring up anyway_

******
VOLLEY BOLLEY TITBITS
SS3 - 364 beat 133 - 164 and 233 - 264.
233 - 264 beat 133 - 164.
201 - 232 beat 301 - 332 and 101 - 132.
101 - 132 beat 301 - 332.
Finals between 333 - 364 and 201 - 232.
Rajshekhar played very well. He retrieved some near-impossible
balls. He is very calm and collected on the field, and never raises
his voice. Seshadri showed very good anticipation while Alok sent
the ball back with maximum ease and consistency. Special mention
must be made of Hoy Matthew, who turned up every day with longsleeved shirts tailored to exhibit his armpits.

******
GUESS WHO
There is one guy in the hostel for whom cricket is more than
a game. It's his life (though he's occasionally seen playing
V.ball.) He has devoted himself so completely to this game that
he is ready to ~o whatever he can for it. He reaches his emotional
peaks during Test matches. A genial conversationalist, he needs but
Little provocation to start off, 'Way back in 1942 at Lord's, in
the second innings of the third test between ••••.• t
It all started casually with a chair removed from room No. 115
and the making of a pitch out of the small strip beside the ball baddy
court, etc., etc. He saw to it that cricket was popularised among
the inmates and that it was played regularly. Mind you, I'm not
saying this to get a place in the hostel cricket team.
Now this guy started this game wi"th an old broken bat (wi th
apologies, as it served the purpose) and a'tennis ball. But in
the process he had invented a new game called 'Tennis Ball Cricket';
and he had the interest and perseverance to approach those who could
do much to promote this game. He ~ fought it out and made them see
reason. And then what?
A great day for T.B.Cric. OFFICIALLY RECOGNISED GAME OF
MANDAK. As a result, more and more facilities will be provided in
due course, and tennis balls supplied by the Sports Sees., and
slowly we might get all the equipment. A new development was the
conduction of an inter-wing tourney on Sat and Sun. Perhaps the
Sports Secs. saw it this way: if Narmada could start 4-a-side
hockey, why can't Mandak introduce 6-a-side T.B.eric.!
I think you guessed who our man is.
WHAT THE
or rather,
WHADDHA
**"'E(censored)

