DATE:ll/4/Si
ISSUE NO:ll [LAST ISSUE]
EDI TOllIAL :
It is with a deep sense of nostalgia that we sit down to
write this last editorial. This is not just because it is the last
edi tori al tha t we are wri ting for the MAND'-\K HAG or perhaps the
last one of our lives. Nor is it that there will be no more issues
of the R~~G, the joys and frustrations encountered in the process,
no more opportunities to say with a triumphant smile, 'Didn't you
know? The next issue is up.' Nor is it that we are now bereft of the
joy that we extract from any hostel scandal or of the chance to
chuckle at the latest PJ. Not that we will no longer have grub in
the Iv1andak mess, nor that we will leave our cosy rooms and shift to
an alien hostel.
Our stay in Mandakini (for most of us, atleast) will soon be
a matter of the past. It will be classified with those other sets
of 'good old days' and our experiences here grouped with those worth
telling our grandchildren. How often~ you will be found in the next
few years saying, tIn good old Mandak ••••• '
My nostalgia springs from the hard, cold fact that we have to
part. No longer ill the situation prevail when 'our crowd' is
together again, when we come out in horses to revel in the joys of
volleyball, badminton, cricket, football, when we can shout from
one end of the hostel to another at any time of day advising a friend
not to study so hard.
I wouldn't bore you with all the 'crucial-year-of-our-lives'
claptrap, but we must accept that we have had some of our most novel,
new and exhilarating experiences in each other's company and the
idea that we must now depart doeu lend a hue of nostalgia to the
situation. InCidentally, we truly regret any hurt feelings caused
on the part of the mess workers.
As for the R~G, we've been lucky that whatever tripe we have
brought out was read patiently and with enthusiasm. But for some
guys who help~d a lot and more so others who gave us encouragement,
we would never have achieved any measure of sucess in this
Herculean task.
So, friends, thanks, all the best and 'bye for now.

H

ON

******

RAGGING, IN

THE 'RAG'
-- Rajeev

Jayar~Man

'Hey freshie, come here!' We had become used to being called
in this fashion in the beginning of the first semester. Not even
one of us has escaped from our seniors. Some has p~easant and others
not-sa-pleasant experiences during the ragging. knyway, it's all
over for us. No more ragging for us, but the burming question is
whether we are going to rag next semester or not. The reactions are
quite mixed and one cannot generalise opinions. On the whole there
are about three opinions.
There are some guys who support r2gging to the core. They
defend ragging as if it were their divine birthright. These are the
ones who get fabulous thrills ragging others. I know of certain guys
who are so desperate to rag, thatlthey practise paining and ragging
guys day and night. I really pity next years' tfreshies' who get
ragged by them. The ragging that they ~Iill be dishing out, I guess,
will be of a 'healthy' sort or atleast that is what they tell me.
The second clBss, I think, is a majority, which believes in
light ragging for introductions and so on. This class is more
interested in knowing their juniors (makes you feel quite senior eh?)
Ragging should be a pleasant experience for those who get ragged
by them.
The third class consists of the guys who are not at all
interested in ra0ging.
Ragging in lIT is not indecent but it is decidedly painful in
the sense that one has to put 1 P with hopel~ss PJs and gags. There
isn'many oath-taking or anything of that sort here but in certain
colleges including lITD there is a pledge which ev~ry~MR junior
takes after ragging. It is quite funny to watch them do it. There
is a row of juniors each with his left hand on his posterior and
his right hand raised as in a German salute. The seniors read the

