4

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECNOLOGY. MADRAS

to various allied matters relating to their scope and size, location,
control and management, staff buildings, equipment etc. The
Committee submitted its interim report early in 1946. Their main
recommendations were that a higher technological institute should,
each, be set up in the northern, western, southern and eastern regions
of the country, the management of each Institute be entrusted to a small
but representative Governing Body composed of persons with requisite
back-ground, qualifications and experience, the Principals and Heads
of Departments be appointed to ensure proper planning of buildings,
equipment and courses of study and the services of an Architect with
experience in the planning of technical institutes be procured at a
sufficiently early stage.
The Government of India accepted the recommendations of the
Sarkar Committee and established the first Indian Institute of Technology in the easter.n region at Kharagpur. This Institutute took its first
batch of students in 1951. The process of organisation of the Indian
Institute of Technology Kharagpur brought to light a number of bottlenecks. There was dearth of staff with research and design experience.
Research equipment was not available in India n6r could it be manufactured locally without adequate experience in design and fllbrication.
Instrumentation was a serious problem as there were neit11'er instruments
nor trained personnel with requisite experience to handle them. The
necessity for obtaining equipment from technologically advanced
countries was, therefore, felt keenly. The Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. was fortunate in obtaining the assistance of the United
States of America, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union in this
direction. The services of a number of foreign experts were obtained
for purposes of organising the research departments in the Institute.
A con~iderable quantity of equipment was made available by these
countries for post-graduate and research work. With such personnel
and equipment forthcoming, the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharaspur has made considerable progress in the field of technology.
It was in this context that the Government of India came to the
conclusion that the remaining institutes could best be set up in collaboration with the technologically advanced countries. The offer of such
collaboration was not, long eIther, in coming. When our Prime Minister
visited Germany in June 1956, their Government offered to set

