FJFI'H ANNUAL NUMBER

s

up a Higher Technological Institute in India. The Prime Minister
accepted this gracious offer and suggested to the German Government
that a German Technical Mission could visit IndIa, see different
engineering colleges, research institutes and factories at work, get a clear
view of the needs of our country, discuss the scheme with our educationists and the Government of India and then formulate final
proposals.
The German Technical Mission under Dr. Ruker arrived in India
in October 1956 and visited the national laboratories, important technical
instItutions and engineering colleges and industrial establIshments in
order to gain a first-haad knowledge of the conditions' prevalent in
India and the prob1ems of a Higher Technological Institute. The
Mission had also discussions wIth the Sponsoring Committee set up by
the Government of India under the Chairmanship of Shri Y. N.
Sukthankar, the then Cabinet Secretary, regardmg various aspects of
technical education, training etc. The Ruker MiSSIOn. submitted its
report to the West German Government on the 23rd of November 1956.
The main recommendation were that (a) a higher technologIcal institution be set up under the Second Five Year Plan with the collaboratton
of the Federal Republic of Germany, (b) the organisatio.n of the institute
should follow the example of the Indian Institute ()f Technology, Kharagpur (c) compul'lory work-shop training to be imparted to the students
(d) five engineering departments (civil, Mechanical, Electrical, ChemIcal
and Metallurgical Engineering be set up along wIth the department of
Science and Humanities. '(c) the first two-years of the course be common
and specialIsation be confined to the last two 'years of the S..year course
with further specialisation being left to the post-graduate courses. (f)
design be given the same importance as in German Techmcal Unh·ersities and (g) the olosest possible relatIon be estabhshed with mdustry
and other researc,," establishments. Dr. Ruker's report went before
the Sponsoring Committee in 1957.
In the meantime the question of location of the Institute was
engaging the attention of experts both IndIan and German. Claims
of vanous places, both of the North and the South, were exammed
and it was ultlmately d~ided that the Iniltitute should go to the South.
The Governments of Madras, Mysore, the then Travancore and Cochin
and Andhra Pradesh wanted the Indian Institute of Technology to be

