6

INDIAN INStTl'Ul'E OF TBCNOLOGY, MADIlA!

set Up in their respective states. The AU India Council of Technical
Education appointed a Committee consisting of Dr. A. L. Mudaliar.
Dr. J. C Ghosh and Dr. P. L. Deshpande to report to the Co-ordinating
Committee of the AICTB after ascertaining the views of the various
state Ilovemments. The claims of a number of olac~ such ~Il Kuopam
and Arkonam in Madras State, La~ir and Ku1i1coii in \.fysore State,
Sethuoarvathiouram in the then Travancor("-Cochin State, Anantaour
anrf HVderabad in Andltra Pra1esh were cOnllidered by the Committee.
The alternatives of startinlZ the Indian Institute of Technology in the
Engineering College at Madras or at the Madras Institute of Technology
or at the Anantapur Engineering College or at Hyderabad under the
aegis of the Osmania University or at the Indial1. InIltitute of Science,
Bangalore were also gone into by the Co-nmittee. The m1.tter was,
finally. discussed at a meeting of the Southern Regional Committee of
the AIcrE on the 4th of May 1956, which was attended by the representatives of the State Governments concerned. The Committee, after due
consideration of the various claims, unanimously recommeended that the
Indian Institute of Technology should be located at Madras. This was
accepted by the AICTE and the Government of India. It was also
decided that th'! Institute sho:.lld n')t be atta~hei to any of the Universities but sh ")ald be a separate entity.
The Government of Madras graciously offered a site within the
Rajbhava'l and a few villages nearabout for the location of the Indian
Institute of Te~hnology measurin~ about 633 acres of lan1 consistin~ of
lovely wooded land "of about 300 acres, lakes and tanks of about
10) acres and dry land for the rest. The site was in clo-se pro1{imity
to the Engineering College, the Highways Research Station, the A.C.
College of Technology and th~ Central Leather Research Institute and
offered an ideal location for a technical institute, not too near to the
centre of the city to get cramped and distracted. The Indo-German
Agreement for the establis'tment of the Indian Institute of Technology,
Madras was signed on th~ 7th of August 1958, with provision for
(1)

Twenty Ger'11an Professors I Specialists, and five German
Foremen for teaching I training;

(2)

Supply of scientific and technical equipment costing
about Rs. 1801akhs,

