FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBBR.

7

(3) Facilities for the training of twenty Indian teacbers in
German Technical Universities.
The Government of India constituted a Planning Committee for
the Institute under the Chairmanship of Dr. A. L. Mudaliar to prepare
detailed plans and estimates, courses of study etc. The Planning
Committee, at its first meeting, formulated the courses of studies to be
started at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. The work of
preparation of detailed plans was, however, left over to the Director to
join.
In pursuance of the deciSIon of the Government of India to start
the Indian Institute of Technology from the academic year 1959, Shri
L. S. Chandrakant, Deputy Educational Adviser to the Government of
India was appointed Special Officer. The Institute was registered as a
Society under the Societies Registration Act of 1860. (It has since
been declared an Institution of National Importance under an Act of
Parliament.) The stage was set for the mauguration of the Institute.
The 30th of July 1959 was a red-letter day in the history of the
Institute, for it was on this day that the Indian Institute of Technology
was inaugurated by Prof. Humayun Kabir. the then Union Minister
for Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs, before a large and distmguished gathering. The Minister significantly stressed the fact that
though the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras was the third higher
technological institute to be started, it had the advantage of instituting,
straightaway, the 5-Year integrated COllrse leading to the degree of
Bach~lor of Technology, which was soon to become the pattem of
engmeering education in the country.
The infant jn~titute was assured of help from all quarters. The
Government of Madras came forward with every help. The ViceChancellor of the Madras University and the Director of the A. C.
College oj Technology placed at the diSposal of the Institute space in
the A. C. College for purposes of class-rooms. laboratories, drawingclasses, teachers' rooms and library. The Director of the Central
Leather Research Institute made available 2 large rooms to house the
administrative offices of the Institute. The Government of Madras
placed at our disposal a hostel m Saidapet for accommodating the first
batch of 120 students admitted in July 1959.

