Impact of Engineering on Society
K. Ramachandra
" This desire of knowledge, and the wonder which it hopeI
to satisfy are the driving power behind a/l the changes that we,
with careless, question-begging inference, call progress. They
and their reactions upon man's other wants and needs have,
since history began, wholly altered the appearance of the dwellin~ place of man as well as man's relation to his dwelling

place. "
-Nicholas Murray Butler in .. Philosophy,t

The birth of engineering took place long before the development
of'first recorded civilization. Its beginnings are hidden in those civilizations which were dust when the first recorded civilization came into
being. Engineering is thus as old as civilization. The Engineer was
born when man tried to become the master of his surroundings and
when he tried to shape nature's gifts and forces to meet his needs
and wants. Engineering has been a powerful and effective instrument
in the evolution of civilization. It can be truly said that the rise of
engineering and the progress of a nation have always gone together.
In the early civilizations, engineering was confined to public enterprises which were under government control. Thus we have the remarkable pyramids of Egypt, the acqueducts of a Roman empire and the
beautiful buildings of Greece. Later when these civilizations vanished,
the books of the past were temporarily lost to sight but the bridges,
roads and architecture of those days remained as mute remainders, even
in ruined form. of what had been and again could be. The words
'engine' and 'engineer' were unknown to the ancients. It was Tertullian.
an early Father of the christian church who used the word 'ingenium'
(meaning invention or production of genius) in A. D. 203 to describe a
battering ram used by Romans in their attack on Carthage. It was
another thousand years, however, before the man who devised and
directed the operation of these engines was referred to as an 'jngeniater',
the origin of the modem title, engineer.
The Renaissance period saw the freeing of science from the shackles
of Religion. The early discoveries of modern science" involved turning

