12

INDIAN INSTITI1TE OF TECNOLOOY, MADRAS

upside down the intellectual and moral assumptions which had· guided
man during long centuries and even millenia". Copernicus, Galileo and
Kepler were chiefly responsible for this. In 1492 Columbus had discovered a new world, while in 1519, Magellan had embarrassed the
doubters by sailing around the world. But Science and Engineering
continued to develop independently each in its own directions and
interests. It was only in the ninteenth century that a developed science
was wedded to a developed technology. However one has to go back
to Renaissance period for the first steps which provided for this setting
'fraught with momentous consequences for the human race:
The evolution of Engineering science in the mid-nineteenth century
opened a new era for mfln. The practical art of Enginering was rationalised and 'reduced to a science '. One very important result of the
, reduction to a science' was that men of far less than outstanding
engineering genius could playa useful part in the wide expansion of
engineering activities. The field was no more limited to a few who
possessed extraordinary gifts of genius.
After the evolution of engineering science, the rise of 'new' engineer
ing was rapid and is still expanding to wider horizons. These widening
activitie.s of engineering have had a powerful role in the rise of modem
civilization. It has been the domi'nant force in sh'iping the lives and interests of ever greater numbers of mankind. The identification of engineering with Industry, the dependence of our modern economy and means
of producing the needs of life on engineering have been the major factors
in bringing about the change in the status of engineering in human
affairs.
The impact of. this new engineering on society has been tremendous.
The world has materially advanced far. Man has been able to tame
Nature to his needs and wishes. Nature has been made to work for the
material comforts of'man to such an 'extent that our forefathers have to
live in this age to believe all this. The ultimate aim of a civilization
has always been, as Aristotle puts it. the search of a 'good' life for its
society. Engineering has greatly helped this civilization in this search
and succeeded to a great extent. The world has been shrunk to a small
unit by the rapid advances of Technology. The miracles of the modem
world have been expressed by Professor C. E. M. load thus:

