FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

13

"We can talk across eontinents and oceans, telegraph pictures,
install television sets; in the home, listen in Delhi to the Big Ben striking
in London ......... Liners have swimming baths, ("rops are ripened by
electricity, roads are made of rubber, X-rays are the windows through
which we behold our insides, photographs speak and sing, murderers
are tracked down by wireless, hair is waved by electric current, submarines go to North pole, aeroplanes to the South".
Yet with all these C9mforts, man is not happy in the modem world.
Chaos reigns supreme in the world; tension, fear, and anxiety grip the
man and the roads lead to blind alleys. The present world is leading
to a crisis in our civilization. "The age of challenging perils, of tortures,
tormentations, fever, chaos and agonies "-that is how one reads and
analytically interpreq our age and its critical temper. The progress of
the world through the last few centuries has been truly static though it
appears dynamic apparently.
Technology has to take the chief blame for all this. Teclnology
by its rapid advance has given us material comforts undreamt of
before but it did not prepare man for this advancement.
The adjustment of man's thinking faculties to technological advances has
been too slow.. This unpreparedness has tripped society in its progress
and hence the present crisis. Civilization has come to mean today a
material advancement but it is not so. Civilization is not a pose of
intellect but an attitude of life. All this is due to •. technical" thinking
which has taken the place of spiritual and moral. thinking which gives
security for any civilization.
Technology, some say, has created a Frankenstein which will
destroy the human race. Even if this is true, we cannot tum back as it
is impossible to cancel the advances made so far and also to suppress
the desire of knowledge in man. This desire of knowledge has led to
the changes which one calls progress. These changes have altered the
habit~t of man as well as his relation to his habitat.
Technology has been called the' liberator' and also the ' enslaver'
of man. One speaks of the blessing and at the same time the evil of
technology. Technology, the brain-child of man has become the
master of man instead of being his servant as intended to be. Many

