14

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF. TECNOLOGY. MADRAS

necessities of modem society are not real necessities but artificial
necessities created bytechnol,ogicaI advancement. 'The hannony between
man and nature has been lost. Man feels a stranger in his own home.
Many of the old crafts have' disappeared due to technology. Whole
sections of population have been morally ruined by "soulless" occupations. Personality is slowly withering and dying, in this machine age.
Mechanisation,has mutilated. ·humanness. Is this the nature'of technology its'elf'?
"Before one, examines the abave question, some basic facts of
technology need to be understood. The first curious fact about technology is its discontinuous nature. This surprising fact is made clearer by
analogy to natqre, particularly plant 'life. In the case of a plant, each
stage of its'life isa oontinuation'ofthe past. This continuity is essential
since a plant is a plant as long as it lives. Compare this with a machine.
A machine is a machine ·only whe:rt it reaches its final stage of production. All the intermediate stages are subordinated in the cause of the
final product. A plant does not strain towards its end: that would
JIlean 'dying before its time. ., It grows in harmony with its inward
rhyth.m, each stage b~ing a preparatio:1 for the· next." In the case'of
technology, the success of today is only a. star-ting p.->int for tomorrow.
If better things are discover~d~ older things become obsolete and useless
Compare this with music ~ w:hoever heard ·of"3. Be,!thoven, Thyagarajaor
Bach masterpiece becoming worthless owing to a newer ma~ t . piece 1.
Tec1mology can thus b~ seen to progress in short leaps and not continuously. Another curiom~ fael ,abouttechnology is that is static in growth.
Thisastreunding fact is made clearer when one sees that technology only
rearranges matter to render certain services which the latter would not
have done if left to itself. The change is not ·permanent as nature
becomes the same as before once the hand of: technology is taken away
from it.
The above facts reveal why technology. is always in a .hurry. to
attain its ends. Technology is material power and power invol-ves
temptations to its abuse. In its hurry,. technology be~omes indifferent
to human values. Also it is not satisfied with the gains of the moment.
It must hurry forward to newer and better things. In this relentless
hurry, human relations are eliminated as far'as possible. This effect
can be particularly seen on economic thought and behaviour. But the
technology serves economic ends above all else. The materialistic world

