FWTH ANNUAL NUMBBR

IS

gives no scgpe for human associations. The simple joys of life which
spring from kindness and love have no meaning in such a world. Such
noble impulses wither under the calculatmg outlook of technology, The
world becomes- prosaic and boring.
This indifference' of t~chnology , to human· values poses a deadly
peril. An outlook. bent· on exploitation of material resources in .disregard
to humanity is dangerous. The 'econpmic valuation of human beings
has no link with· human personality. A- fact,ual and scientific app.
ro~ch is all rjght when testing a material in physics or chemistry' labora·
tory. but the same technique when applied on humaN beings has)no mean·
ing.
On the other Band it is dangerous.
Reliance and open -confidenae. should be the key methods of approach to fellow. beings. Man
cannot. be tested as some material in a laboratory but should· be treated
as a person and human being.
·'Civilization~ are not held together by technology but by human
association; which is cemented in belief and mutual trust." The sense
of community is based on communal interests that take reHability and
personality into account. A. community which is not based on mutual
tNst and confidence is a mirage and as unstable as a house of cards.
A technologically. conditioned man has,no purpose in the world since
his belief ill the ultimat~ and dj.vine has been shaken by.technology. The
world to him is berefr of purpose. Such a worlq is filled with fear and
dread of future; The security got by human relations is lost. His paths
lead nowhere· in this silent, hollow and friendless world. After al~
• man does,not live by bread alone.'

The remedy to "this sorrowful and dangerous' state of affairs is
simple. It is to return technology to its proper place in relation to
man. Its proper place is functioning as man's servant; not as his master.
This can be brought· about only by man himself and not by technology.
Humanness should return to man. This can b! achieved only through
faith in human progrells and courageous solution of many perplexing
problem; of rapid technological change. As John Dewey says:
co Man is capable if he will but exercise the required courage; intelPh ysical conditions offer
ligence and 'effort of shaping his own fate.
no insurmountable obstacle. The patient and experimental study of

