18

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECNOLOOY, MADRAS

Let us not forget that U. S. policy was in quite a muddle particularly during the last days of Eisenhower's administration. The U-2 affair
can well illustrate this fact. The State Department first denied that any
such planes ever flew over Russia, then said that the plane shot down
was a weather observation plane, and finally admitted that it had been
sent for spying. To top it all, Eisenhower declared reconnaissance to
be part of the national policy of the country. No wonder Khrushchov
was having the better of the deal with him. The U. S. was as much (or as
little !)inclined towards and ready for an arms reduction as Russia; but yet
Khrushchov found means of making a dramatic gesture on the subject
at the U. N. that impressed the entire world, while Ike seemed timid and
reluctant. General Eisenhower received the greatest blow to his prestige when the Social Democrats of Japan forced him to cancel the projected tour of their country. Khrushchov's diplomacy seemed to be
triumphing everywhere.

It was under these circumstances that John Kennedy ascended the
Presidency. But still, within months he was abJe to demonstrate to
the world that America was as strong, and yet at peace loving, as Rusia.
But in doing so, he not only managed to mitigate deterioration in reJations with the Soviet Union, but on the other hand improved these relations. Herein lies the pecu}arity and the greatness of the Kennedy effect.
He got just what he wanted to be done. He wanted that the world
should move towards peace, and the world did witness a sudden tM,w
in the cold war - signified by the signing of the Test Ban Treaty. On
the other hand, Kennedy was determined that Communism should not
make any headway, particularly in the Western hemisphere.
And he
managed to drive out Soviet nuclear bases from Cuba, not by chasing
them away, but by making Kbrushchov himself dismantle and.withdraw
the offensive weapons. But even after tbis episode, Khurshcb~v was as
friendly as, if not more friendly than, before. The significance of this
achievement can be gauged from the fact that the "Bay of Pigs" invasion
of Cuba organized by the Eisenhower administrtiion (thOUgh carried out
after Kennedy came to power) had proved a miserable failure. AU this
goes to show that Kennedy gave away nothing, but yet achieved everything.
The advent of President Kennedy had another important effectthe balance of personalities between him and Khrusbchov. This balance

