FIPTH ANNUAL NUMBER

19

of personalities is an necessary as the balance of armed strength in order
to achieve a balance of power and influence between the two great
powers. Before 1960, Khrushchov was certainly more in the lime light
than the American President (Eisenhower). His acts and speeches were
given more importance and coverage even in the U. S. press. But
Kennedy managed to attract as much attention as Khrushchov. This he
did not by ignoring or condemning the Soviet leader, but by understanding him.
A few years ago, at a diplomatic party in Moscow, Premier·
Khrushchov told the assembled guests about the Russian who suddenly
began to run through the corridors of the Kremlin shouting "Khrushchov is a fool ! Khrushchov is a fool! " He was sentenced, the premier
said, to twenty three years in prison - "three for insulting the party
Secretary - and twenty for revealing a state secret".
But Mr. Khrushchov is no fool-and Kennedy knew that the
sooner the defendants of the "Free World" realized this fact, the
better. The Soviet Premier is shrewd, he is tough, he is vigorous, well
informed and confident. Americans traditionally like to picture hostile
dictators as unstable and irrational men, the almost comic captives of
their moods and manias. Some of them think of Khrushchov as a
short tempered, vodka-drinking politician -buffoon, alternately
scheming and screaming inside the Kremlin's walls. But Kennedy
knew better. He knew that he was dealing with a tough-minded, articulate, hard-reasoning spokesman for a system in which be (Khrushchov)
was thoroughly well, versed and in which he thoroughly believed.
Khruschov was certainly not the prisoner of any ancient dogma.
Mr. Khrushchov, for his part, liked and respected Mr. Kennedy.
He knew that Kennedy thought twice before he said anything, and
would stick to what he said. He was confident that the American
President would not and could not be threatened or overpersuaded into
any foolish military manoeuvre by McCarthyists in the Pentagon.
The net effect of all this Was that for once, the two greatest powers
of the world moved towards one and the same goal-' peaceful
co-existence. The extremists were, for the first time, being condemned
by both sides. China quarrelled with Russia. America refused to
support colonialism. And both not only called for. but took steps in

