20

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MEDRAS

the direction of peace and disarmament. A very notable achievement,
indeed, considering the amount of mistrust and suspicion that they
harboured against each other.
"Let us never negotiate out of fear: Ifut let us never fear to
negotiate ,Of said Kennedy. But what is more important is, he put his
words into action, and these actions have produced one of the most
wonderful effects ever.
The effect of President Kennedy's assassination on the world
was, to say the least, electrifying. I know of people who have no
interest in current affairs, and never read newspapers, but who wept on
hearing, and reading the news and details of his murder. For days, it
was the lead news in all news papers throughout the world. Even.
" Pravada" remade its first page in order to be able to carry the news.
It is said that apart from the Soviet space exploits, no news has received.
such a wide coverage as did Kennedy's death in the Soviet press, radio
and Television.
The funeral of Kennedy was attended by the greatest assemblage
of world leaders (many whose age was double that of the President!)
ever to do homage to a nation's leader. They comprised over a hundred international dignitaries, including an Emperor, a King, a Queen,
six Presidents, eight Princes and twelve Prime Ministers. Flags flew at
half mast throughout the world (except of course, in China), and condolence meetings were held everywhere (including in the Indian Institute
of Technology, Madras). Not even Dag Hammerskjoeld, the U. N.
Secretary General who died in equally tragic circumstance in the Congo,
was able to evoke so much emotion and sympathy.
What is unprecedented about all this is that these waves of shock and
sympathy came from aU comers of the world and from people who
throughtout Kennedy's tenure in office had sharply disagreed with him.
Take the case of General de Gaulle. He had opposed Kennedy's policies on not one but almost all occasions. But yet he had so much
regard for the young President that he flew all the way from Paris and
sal uted his mortal remains.
And so the effect of the Dallas 'outrage was that the world realized
with 1l nasty shock, that the man who had brought hopes of lasting
peace was no more.

