Human Rights
R. Natarajan, lAS
Man's fight for freedom and recognition of his right has throughout
history, been a saga of the human soul. It has, indeed, been an epic
()f courage and resolution in the face of adversity. The flame of freedom
could not be quenched by the Tyrants of the ancient Greek city-states
or the Caesars of Imperial Rome. The absolute monarchs of the
Middle Ages or the Pronouncements of the Pope could not put it out.
The dictatorship-individual or democratic-of the modern days have
tried hard to extinguish the eternal flame but have succeeded only in
enkindling it. This is, as it ought to be, for a man without rightsincluding the right to think and act according to his light-will be a
non-tational being without the power to adjust himself to the challenge
of a changing world. and surely be swept away into the limbo
of oblivion as was the case with giant pre-historic creatures like the
Dinosaur and the Brontosaur of times long forgotten. "I think - therefore I live" once declared Descartes, the famous Fren~h Philosopher.
Very much earlier still, Pythagoras proclaimed that 'Man is the measure of
all things', meaning that everything in this world has to be judged from
the stand-point whether it is good or bad for man who is the ultimate
judge. The late President Kennedy struck an eternal note when he
once said" A man does what he must-inspite of personal consequences,
in s:",ite of obstacles and dangers and pressures-and that is the basis of
all human morality". All these are part of the priceless human heritage
and explain why Man has survive:l to this day ever since his appearance
on the earth during the close of the Pleistocene Age.
It is, perhaps, poignantly appropriate that we should bestow a
little thought on ' Human Rights' at a time when as President Kennedy
said ' Man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish poverty and
all forms of human life. And, yet, the same revolutionary belief for
which our forbears fought, are still at issue, around the globe-the
belief that the rights of Men came not from the generosity of the state
but from the hand of God." Yes-the fight.for freedom and human
ri1Z~lts is, certainly. not over. The Angolan thirsting for liberty from
Portuguese rule, the Indian and the Africa~ battling in South Africa for

