FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

23

the basic human rights of life and equality of aU men, the Negro in the
U. S., yearning to enjoy the privileges of being an American without
regard to his race or his colour, the Harijan waging a winning battle
against untouchability in a remote Indian village or a citizen groaning
under dictatorships-individual or party - and pining for elementary
rights like the freedom of opinion and e.<pression, are all grim but real
reminders to us that Man's quest is still on.
Some of our pet propositions in politics and economics have,
unceremoniously, been pulled down in practice. When Thomas
Jefferson wrote in the D~claration of Am~rican Independence that all
Governments derive "their just powers from the consent of the governed"
or Abraham Lincoln spoke at Gettysburg about "Government of the
people, by the people and for the people" they never could even anticipate that Popular Sovereignty could result, not in the solution, but in
the creation of problems, more baffling than the world has ever
known before. They had not even dimly dreamt that in democracy
legislators could be made to function merely as phonograph discs to
record and reproduce the voice of the people; executives to be glorified
bell hops to do their bidding and judges to conduct bloody assizes
whenever the mob howls for the sacrifice of an unsuspecting scapegoat.
Prof. Maxey was right when he said "Daily the voice of the
people roUs out its divagations to the rulers of the world, a confusion
of Tongues that defies interpretation and confounds statesmanship."
Man has not, so far, conclusively proved that Democr~cy can be quite
different from party dictatorship or rule by demangogues, playing on
the harpstrings of peoples" emotions.
In the economic field, laissez faire, the economic philosophies of
free enterprise and the capitalistic institutions of the Machine Agehave all been hurled down. Some of the inordinate excesses ofindividlial
enterprise led to the dethronement of Adam Smith and the fervent hope
that collectivism was the idol to be worshipped next, if the Millennium
were to be ushered and the rights of man safeguarded. But now there
are serious doubts whether collectivism is the .. open sesame" to
the Millennium and whether it will not merely mean distribution of
poverty in underdeveloped countries, with everyone getting poorer,
without any becoming the happier for it. So:ne wonder whether control
and. restriction that go with collectivism have not cut ~t the very roots

