24

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECNOLOGY, MADRAS

of individual rights. Taxation is so high in most of the countries that
the alternatives before anybody are not between surfeit and sufficiency
but between subsistence and starvation. A man is not left at peace even
after death. Death does not dispense with all his obligations. In fact,
it energises one whole section of the Income Tax Department the Death
Duties Section. Everyday, there are everywhere, in this world, more
and more of insiduous and invisible inroads on individual rights,
either under the guise of democratic regulation or economic makebelieves. The shadows of the State are creeping in everywhere and it
looks as if we are turning the clock back to the old Greek and Roman
postulate that the supreme expression of human intelligence, the finest
product of human endeavour is to be found in the State and the indivi~
duaI"does and should not count as an entity. We are almost led j to wonder whether Rousseau was wrong after all when he said" Man is born
free but is, everywhere, in chains". It is in this backdrop that it is
but appropriate that we take the trouble to get acquainted with human
rights and their history.
"Obedience·..·, Napolean, once said" Is man's destiny; he deserves
nothing better and he has no rights." This does appear brutal but,
unfortunately, save for a few humanists and liberals, the political
thinkers of the past had shared the same view. The individual in the
ancient Greek world did not stand out as an entity-he was just an
ingredient of his family and city. Plato was positive about it while
Aristotle, the great Greek thinker, declared that" An isolated man must
either be a Beast or a God." The Roman concept was no differentCicero chanted that the individual existed primarily for the advantage
and use of the State. 1n the Middle Ages, the individual was only a
communicant of the Church and a lowly link in the chain of Feudal
relationships, with no end and no beginning. Individual rights, in so
far as they were recognized at aU, depended entirely on the social status
of a person-as a mere human being, he had no rights at all.
During the 15th and 16th centuries 'when the concept of nationalism was raising its head, what counted was power, order and security
in those troublous times and this, the Monarchical institutions founded
upon the doctrine of Divine Right, afforded. The individual continued
to be nothing, though there were;.1 dissident and protesting voices like
those of Calvin, John Knox and George Buchanan, insisting that

