PIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

2S

Kings had no right to rule unjustly. But these were voices in the
wilderness and none of these could achieve anything until after national
security and stability had become so firmly grounded that legal authority
could be challenged without daager to national independence. The
England of Charles I and the France of Louis XVI and America at the
time of the Boston" tea party" had become so thoroughly nationalised
that revolutionary upheaval could not dissolve their bonds of nationhood. So it was that these countries became the stages for the
enactment of the dramatic and dynamic struggles in which political
theories proclaiming the sacredness of constituted authority went down
before theories exalting the rights of Man. In England came the
assertion of the historic liberties of the Englishman which were his
heritage since the days of the Anglo Saxons and had found expression
in the Magna Carta and the Petition of Rights. PYD;l and Hampden7
Eliot and Edward Coke spread the idea that every English citizen
possessed certain fundamental legal rights which could not be arbitrarily
curtailed. In france, a bright sun lit up the sky after the dark night
of absolute monarchy with the adoption of the Declaration of the Rights
of Man and the Citizen. by the French National Assembly in 1789.
"Liberty, Equality and Fraternity" were the magic watchwords of the
French Revolution. Article I of the Declaration thundered that "Men
are born and remain free and equal in their rights" while Article II
defined these rights as "liberty, property, security and resistance to
oppression." The great historical influence of the French Declaration
of Rights was undoubted .. It was the inspiration of most of the 19th
century bills of rights in Europe and even the Bolshevik "Declaration
of the Rights of Workers and Exploited Peoples" of 1918._ The Declaration of Independence in America even bmadened the triple rights of
life, liberty and property to life, liberty and pursuit of h2ppiness. The
pregnant political principle that there can be no taxation without
representation was proclaimed from across the Atlantic. It seemed that
the rig!its of man have been guaranteed for ever and accepted by all."
But this was not to be. The scramble for markets, the race for
colonies, the drive for cheap labour even at the point of accepting
slavery as a dIvine dispensation in the 18th and the early 19th centuries,
made men forgetful. Colonialism raised its ugly lead and with it came
economic exploitation. The seminal ideas of liberty and equality,
blazed by the English American and French Revolutions, were buried

