Time And Tide
Prof. B. Sengupto
(A talk broadcast from Tiruchi Station
of the All India Radio, during
February, 1964.)

There has, in recent times, been a considerable amount of
lively discussion, if not controversy, on the subject of our requirements of technical personnel in different fields of enginecring, training programmes best suited to them, facilities tlierefor and employment opportunities to absorb them on qualification after training. In
order to view these factors in their proper perspective, it is necessary to examine our present state of industrial development vis-a-vis
the industrial position obtaining in the pre-independence India.
During the second World War, it became apparent even to the
then Government of India that if India were to survive in an Industrial Age, it would have to depend on her own indigenous manufacturing potential. It became quite clear that the war-ravaged
countries in the West would not be in a position to assist India for
at least some years to come. So, it did not come as a matter of
surprise when, immediately after Independence, our national Government set up, what is known a:; the Planning Commission, to
chalk out a phased programme of development, fix relative
priorities and assess the expenditure involved. The First Five Year
Plan, which was introduced in 1951 was pre-eminently a plan for
better Agriculture. The plan aimed at self-sufficiency in the matter
of food at a time when our country was passing through chronic food
shortages. This done, the Planning Commission set about its main
task of planning for the speedy industrialisation of the country.
The Second and the Third Five Year Plans which visualised a
national outlay of nearly 6000 and 10,000 crores of rupees respectively concentrated on the industrial development of the country.
As a result, new basic industries have been started allover the
country.• In their wake, have sprung up numerous ancillary industries, opening up new vistas of employment opportunities.
This phenomenal expansion can properly be gauged only if
we examine a few cases of our new industry. Steel, for examplethe output of steel in our country has gone up from 1.6 .million
tons in 1947 to over 6 million tons now and is expected to attairl
a target of 13 million tons by 1966. In the automobile field we

