FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

33

hardly had, before 1947, any automobile industry worth the name
whereas we have at present over six major automobile factories, manufacturing almost aU our requirements of automotive
and commercial vehicles. The production of heavy chemicals such
as sulphuric acids, soda ash, caustic soda and fertilizers has increased by 20 to 60 times during the second and the third Five Year
Plan periods.
This spectacular increase in the industrial output of the
country has swelled up the scope of employment for technically
trained men in almost all fields and at all levels. Men are required
by the dozen to' carry out research, control quality, discover
synthetic substitutes and forge newer and more effective
weapons in our battle against poverty. Men are required to
design and to manufacture, - men as supervisory levels and men
for manning the factories, - skilled, semi-skilled and even unskilled
craftsmen to produce for plenty.
A modest estimate of our manpower re:).uirements made by
the Planning Commission revealed that to supply the required
number of technicians for our expanding industries, it was
necessary for us to train by the end of 1961 about 30,000 degree
holders and about 50,000 diploma holders in engineering, while
for the Third Five Year Plan Period of 1961 to 1966, we have to
produce at least 48,0:>0 degree holders and 82,000 diploma
holders, if we do not want to miss the industrial bus. The
requirements of technicians - skilled and semi-skilled, - may easily be
estimated from the above figures. For every engineer at degree
and diploma level, we require between 5 and 1.0 men at the craftsman level. Thus. even a modest estimlte will place our requirement of trained craftsmen at about 10 lakhs.
In 1947, we had in our country, 38 engineering colleges and S3 diploma institutions. Our annual admission capacity at degree and diploma
levels was just about 3000 and 3700 respectively while our annual
output was 1270 and 1440 per year respectively. The then training programmes were mainly focused on turning out maintenance personnel to help maintain plant and machinery
and to construct roads, bridges and buildings. Research, design,

