34

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

development and manufacture did not come into the purview o~
the college training schemes. But our development plans especially
the second and the third Five Year Plans, what with their emphasis
on the rapid industrialisation of the country, have made it obligatory for the Government to expand educational and training facilities in various technical fields and at _various levels.
During the period 1947 to 1963. the number of engineering
colleges has increased from 38 to 126. Technical institutes with
emphasis on research and design have also been set up in different
regions to meet the demand for trained research and design engineers.
227 new diploma institutions and polytechnics have been set up to
train engineers and engineering supervisors. The admission capacity
in the colleges in 1963 was about 20,000 with an annual output of
over 7000 degree holders. The corresponding figures for the polytechnics were 40,000 admissions and an annual output of 11,000
diploma-holders. In addition to the usual branches of engineering
and technology viz., Civil. Mecnanical. Electrical Engineering. new
branches such as metallurgical and mining engineering. geology,
architecture, naval architecture, to NO and country planning, textile
technology, leather te:hnology, chemical engineering, aeronautical
engineering, electronics, telecommunication and industrial engineering have been opened. The five Indian Institutes of Technology or the
IITs as they are better known, established in the Northern, Southern,
Eastern, Western and Central regions of tbe country with particular
emphasis on post-graduate work and research, in addition to their
large intake of students at the under-graduate level will naturally
lend a powerful hand for training development, research, and design
engineers in all fielas of engineering and technology.
These all-India Institutions are open to students from aU over India.
The admissions to the under-graduate courses at these institutions are·
made on the basis of merit determined by a competitive examination
held all over India while admissions to the. post-graduate courses are
based on the candidates' performance at the qualifying degree examinations. In addition, eleven Regional Engineering Colleges such as the
Colleges at Warangal. Surathkal, Durgapur etc., set up in different
States with emphasis on under-graduate studies also cater to students
of all parts of Intlia - though oa a q"JtJta blSis with admissions made

