"FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBEll

35

on a merit basis by the colleges themselves. The various other colleges
under the control of various State Governments and local bodies are
normally open to the students of the particular State in which they are
located. The admissIons are made either by a State Admission Board
or by the CoUeges or the University.
Facilities for postgraduate studies and research have been provided
for in many of the older institutions like the Guindy Engineering
College, P. S. o. College of technology, Bengal Engineering College,
Roorkee University and Poona Engineering CoUege over the past
decade and more colleges will have these facilities as and when they are
able to equip their research departments and attract well qUalified
research personnel.
The Diploma institutions are mostly controlled by the Directors of
Technical Education of the States and" the stUDents after completion of
the courses appear for the final examination conducted by the State
Board of Technical Education.
As contrasted with the colleges and polytechnics which are set up
to cater to bright students who are capable of digesting the sophisticated
courses of Science and Technology, large number of technical training
institutes have been set up to cater to"those who are not too well up in
studies but have a flair for practical work and an aptitude for arts and
crafts.
These institutions have at present a total training capacity of over
one lakh in various trades like carpentry, fitting, welding, foundry,
instrumentation, smithy, electrician, wiring etc. In addit!on, many of
the larger industrial establishments under the public or the private sectors have their own training centres to cater to their own special requirements of personnel. For instance, the Heavy Electrical
Industries at Bhopal, Heavy Engineering Corporation at Ranchi,
Hindusthan Steel at RourkeIa, BhiJai and Durgapur and the Tata
Iron & Steel Works at Jamshedpur have their own training centres
to train personnel in accord with their special require
ments.

on

The second and third Five-Year plans with their emphasis
rapid industrial d eve lop men t have opened up

