Random Thoughts On Indian History.
R.

v. S. Man;

It has become a habit in our

post

independence era

to fish for glory in the past. Though, prima-facie, there is nothing
wrong in that, the process becomes pernicious, when inconvenient data
thrown up in the course of the search. are by design ignored, or what
is worse, suppressed. The unbridled enthusiasm of a newly free
society, like the bigotry of the convert, is understandable, but when
truth is made a deliberate casualty, an urgent reapprisal, albeit agonising, has to be made with candoUT.
Our history is a sad narration of a subject country. To be very
much alive to this unpleasant fact, is essential to see through events
in the correct perspective. Any reading has to ~e purposeful: and
more so a study of Indian History, so that errors are analysed and
the knowledge gained be employed to steer clear of inherent national
weaknesses.
To ltarp on the strings of ancient glory, time and again, -wiU
be dangerously akin to Emperor Nero's sadistic preoccupation during
the fateful fire of Rome.
The climatic and geographical situation of this sub-continent
invited the adventurous beyond the Himalayas. The langour
resulting from the easy going life in the sunburnt plains of Hindustan
made these conquerors, in their turn, fall an easy prey to the next set
of determined attackers. Like th·is, wave after wave of brilliant and
bold leaders came to India. subjugated the inhabitants, enjoyed
luxury and soon got enervated themselves only to be pushed aside by
the next set of fortune-seekers.
In this process, an advantageous factor like ethnic fusion did
emerge, but was, unfortunately not harnessed to the task of forging a
unified population.

The popUlation was predominantly Hindu and by an accident,
the attackers were Muslims. Cruelty and terror were the accepted
living standards of the age: It suited the then best interests of the
Governors to keep the different sections· of the people severely separate,
se that there could be no concerted effort to claim freedom.

