38

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MEDRAS

All points of hatred were encouraged. Any area of common con_
cord waS never published. The intellectuals of the day spent their time
and energy in abstract pursuits without bothering themselves about
ideals of unity or concepts of good government. Lack of realistic
approach to the pro"lems of the day brought about a loosely knit
popUlation inviting. centrifugal tendencies sooner
rather than
later.
It was not just an irony of fate that medieval India had a type of
administration the people deserved.

Rulers in most parts of Asia were fed on flattery and licence which
led to decadence in the body politic. Moghul ruthlessness ha4 stamped out initiative and enterprise in the land. Merit was viewed with
alarm.
Religious diversity was emphasised with favours and jobs going
exclusively to the Muslims. A communal slant of a distressing nature
was given even in factual chronicles.
Soldiery at any time is apt to be rough but to the Central Asian
hordes, killing came naturally, revenge was a duty, pardon an infamy
and plunder a means of livelihood. They invariably backed up the
power that be, however tyrannical.
People enjoyed no rights. In the very nature of things, there
could have been no question of a Magna Carta with the Moghuls, as
came about in England centuries earlier. Society was prostrate. Initiative was conspicuous by its absence.
Against this bleak background, it goes to the signal credit of
Gandhiji to have sounded the trumpet of freedom, without making
the call martial. Freedom was won. The fine spirit, the Anglo
Saxon sense of fairplay and clean struggle of the freedom-fighters,
all played their part. The question now arises-We have won freedom
but have we proved ourselves worthy of it? Adult franchise has
been introduced with scant regard to the qualification of the electorate.
When elementary caution demanded severely firm control over the
divergent elements within the country and extreme tact in dealing
with neighbouring countries, our energies were frittered away introduc-

