FIFl'H ANNUAL NUMBBll

the car, pause, take a breath and hit it again.
mudguard, the ra<tiator, .the wind shield etc.

41

He ainied blows at the

'Your Car?', asked a by-stander.
'My Car', said the man as he smashed the headlight
He surveyed the results and grunted with satisfaction. He handed
the hammer back to the garage man, thanked him, got into the car
and drove off. As he disappeared the garage man explained:
'That fellow got mixed up in a fight last night. Got badly knocked·
So he stayed at a hotel instead of going home. Called up his wife, told
her, he had been in an accident. 'So,' the garage man shrugged his
shoulders, 'so he had to have an accident!'
One philosopher said one fine morning "Life is full of accidents"
but then he forgot to add pleasant and unpleasant. Accident surely
is an unexpected event mostly, but not unpleasant always.
Call me stupid, but why should we "Wnk that accidents always
cause losses to the victim, be it a firm or even the society? In many
cases it is quite different and besides if they cause loss to 'one' they
surely will cause gain to another somewhere else.
Car accidents are most common as we all know. Two cars come
from two directions and collide. The victims may be wounded seriously or may just escape with minor scratches.
But then as 'third. persons' how many of us· have not enjoyed the
sight or how many of us have not come out with some queer remarks?
Let us be true .to ourselves. I have heard people pleased. with accidents
saying 'They deserve it. Why go so fast?~

An ex-justice of a big city court when asked as to what- type of
cases he carne across most during his long years of service, said,
"I had to investigate more car accidents by collision in which both the
parties were observing traffic rules, both the cars keeping to the right
side, within maximum speed limits and both the sides applying brakes
before the accident occurred.
And when cases of accidents run in the court they create a lot
of fun inspite of the gravity of the accident. One such instance is a

