Congress In Artificial Atmosphere
P. Poovanjanllya Sastry
Sardar Patel once said "Facts take revenge if we ignore them."
Facts took revenge against India last October while were still wandering
in the visionary world of eternal friendship with China. Mr. Nehru
rightly said that we were living in an artificial atmoshpere of our own
creation. And there he is with correct diagnosis. A year passed by
since the Chinese attacked us. What did the Congress learn in this one
year? The recent resolution of Congress at Jaipur shows that it is as it
was.

An old maid (in a story) hangs about the court on an imaginary
law suit and says with a perfect and pungent irony "I am expecting a
judgment shortly. On judgment day" Our Congress socialism. is
like the imaginary law suit in the story.
What is Indian socialism? In a report entitled "the rationale of
Indian Economic Organisation"
Prof. J. K. Gabraith (the noted
American econ0mist) dubbed Indian socialism as post office socialism.
The vagary of our leaders is that the very birth of public Sector solves
aU the problems. Public sector is· only a 'shift of economic power.
from one hand to another viz. from individual to state.
In other words public sector also has to work through a certain set
of individuals who may be no better than the people of private Sector.
The public sector must be managed by efficient machinery. Above all
there is the minister to take care of the efficient run.
But the Congress ministers use this privilege for selfish ends
Today, virtue is something which is neither needed nor applauded
by the congressmen. Congress of Gandhian era was incarnation of
purity and justice. Today corruption is the family affair of Congress.
The permanent human temptation is the temptation to be mean and
Congress proves to be an example of it.
Each man'in Congress looks at his neighbours to see whether they
Every man calls
have.he.quite come up to the exact line of greatness.
himself leftist or ri~htist as if he is inspired by some ideology. We can

