44

INDIAN INSTITUTB OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

hardly believe that such a thing as greatness at all exists in Congress.
Congress looks that it might be strengthened from above instead of
strengthening it from below. Every man waits for a chance to become a
minister. Each minister boasts that his performance is brilliant,
dazzling and .resplendent.
The mamby-pamby nonsense of nonviolence, the tipsy, trappy
talk of nonalignment won't help us in reality.
That equality is a wonderful thing and that it must be achieved in
India is a truth which every Indian believes to his dying day. Socialism
so long as it means equality-is what every Indian wants. The mere
prattle about this word by Congress woke up the beast of humour in him
and he started to doubt about it. The congress pronounced the word
nine hundred and ninetyninth times and the Indian finds suddenly that
it is falsehood.
Another great tragedy of Congress is its reliance on the old
generation. The average age of a central cabinet minister is about
seventy. Thus Congress has denied the opportunity of serving the
people for one generation.
"I do not like, I have never liked," Mahatma Gandhi once said"
this reliance on me for everything. It is the WOTst way of managing
national affairs. The Congress must·not become, as it has threatened to
become, one man's show. no matter p.ow good or great that one man
may be...... "
That is exactly what is happening today in the Congress.
No doubt, the position of the Congress party is a unique one. New
democratic countries in the world have a political party in as dominant
a position as the Congress in India. For the moment, India could be
described as having a one party democratic system based not on the
Coercion found in one party dictatorships but on consent. But, as we
have already noted, there has been a progressive deterioration of
the Congress since independence.
"Communalism, casteism and
provincialism" to use Nehru's OWn phrase, are corrupting the Congress
today apart from the ideological conflicts within itself. So unless a
national democratic party capable of providing stable government
rises, it is hardly possible for India to carry through a programme of
social, and economic change within democratic frame work.

