48

INDIAN INSTlTU'I'B OF TECHNOLOOY, MADRAS

Came days of suffering. Young Naren had to feed six or seven months.
Grim poverty stared at him. Creditors started worrying. Relatives
grew ungrateful and they even attempted to· drive Naren and his family
out of their house. Naren hunted for a living but met with disappointment everywhere. Even his moral character was maligned. He became
utterly helpless and surrendered to the Paramahamsa for help.
The Bhagavan advised him to pray to the Mother herself for relief.
Naren obeyed. He had divine revelations and could not ask: for what
he wanted. To quote Swami Vivekananda himself 'I went for the
third time, but on entering the temple Jl terrible shame overpowered me.
I thought, ~What a tritle 1 have come to pray to the Mother about! It
is like asking a gracious king for a few vegetables. What a fool Jam!'
In shame and remorse I bowed to Her respectfully and said, "Mother"
I want nothing but knowledge and devotion."
Thus Naren found his Guru in Shri Ramakrishna:. uThe doubting
Naren was passing away; the devotional Naren, the spiritual NarenNaren, the Hindu-was being born!"
"Sri KriShna had Arjuna; Buddha· had Ananda, Gouranga had
Nityananda ... To Shri Ramakrishna Narendra Nath played this complementary part."
The Bhagavan entered into Samadhi on 15th August, 1886 and
Narendra thereafter carried OD His mission on being blessed by Mother
Sarada Devi.
In his wanderings, the Swamiji reached Kanyakumari and medi1ated on a rock in the sea for three days. The vision of ancient India in
all her splendour and glory rolled before him and he was overjoyed! In
a moment he was moved to tears as he thought of India falling to the
depths of degradation in contrast. There "the simple monk was transformed into a great reformer, a great organiser, and a great Masterbuilder of th~ Nation." "To him religion was no longer an isolated
province of human endeavour; it embraced the whole scheme of things
not only the Dharma, the Vedas, the Upanishads, the meditation of
Sages, the asceticism of great monks, the Vision of the Most High, but
the heart of the people, their lives, their hopes, their misery, their
poverty, their degradation, their sorrows, their woes.· And he saw that

