FlF11I ANNUAL NUMBER

49

the Dharma, even the Vedas, without the people, were as so much
straw in the eyes of the Most High. Verily, at Kanyakumari the Swami
was the Patriot and Prophet in one!"
No wonder, endowed with superhuman energy, magnetic personality, catholic scope of mind and inborn universality of outlook and
sublime eloquence, Swami Vivekananda set iorth to command instant
recognition wherever he went.
His visit to America Was an "astonishing venture." Faith was his
armour, ahd,he found his passage money raised by his well-wishers in
Madras by a door to door campaign. He-set sail for America on May
31, 1893 for a Conference to be opened somewhere someday and without any credentials I Thanks ·to Prof. John Henry Wright of Harvard
University, he managed_ to gain entry into the Parliament of Religions
after passing through untold sufferingS.
The Swamiji arose 1ast to spel1k. "A striking figure, clad in yellow
and orange, shining like the sun of India in the midst of the heavy
atmosphere of Chicago, a lion head, piercing eyes, mobile lips, movements swift and abrupt, the Swamiji bowed to Devi Saraswathi. the Goddess of Knowledge, and adddressed the august assembly as
"Sisters and Brothers of America." The Parliament had gone mad and
" everyone was cheering, cheering, cheering."

"It was human eloquence at its highest pitch," expounding the way
to the Realisation of a Universal Religion.
Later the Swamiji visited England, France, Germany and other
countries and preached the cardinal tenets of Indian culture and
philosophy. After long and arduous work both at home and
abroad, the Swamiji passed away at the age of thirty nine, thus fulfilling
a prophecy which was frequently on his lips, "1 shall never live to see
forty."
Hundred and one years have rolled over since the birth of Swami
Vivekananda. Today he Jives in .and through the innumerable Ashrams
and Mutts as well as other educational and social institutions whose
outlook is huma·nitarian, spiritual and non-sectarian.
Truly mankind owes a debt of incalculable magnitude to Swami
Vivekananda and there could be no greater monument to his glory than

