S8

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRA';

I managed to say after about a minute, "Gentlemen".
Immediately aU the heads looked up and I was attacked by two
hundred and forty eyes all aiming sharply at me. It was the
first time when so many eyes simultaneously cast their view on
me. I felt highly embarassed and shy that I forgot aU my
introductory speech which I had prepared the previous day.
Regaining little confidence I proceeded to introduce myself. Before
I could finish, from a corner came a question, "Are you an assistant Professor 1" ... another one "Are you married 1" ... What are
your academic qualifications? etc.
The questions were so numerous that I remembered the last
ones more and hence decided to answer from the back. I told
them I have obtained a B. Tech. degree and they all asked me
" How 1" I tell you honestly that I would have answered any
other question easily but not this. Answering this question would
mean betraying my own Institution!
Students continued to be restless. In my nervousness I told
them I am still a spinster! By heavens, there exploded many
bombs of laughter and roar and cheer with which came also a
suggestion, "Then we can help you 1" Even a riot will be less
noisy than that unfortunate lecture hall of which I was in
charge. They reminded me I have not answered their questions. I kept answering and came to the first one, that of my
designation. That was a heavy question for me. With a feeling of humility and uncertainty about the reaction, I told them
in a low tone that I am a Junior Technical Assistant. Contrary
to my expectations the majority of the class felt they were too
'big' for me or I was too 'small' for them. They gathered their
books and started walking out of the class room. Providence
helped me by sending the head of the institution along the corridor
at whose appearance students came back and resumed their
seats. They must have been cursing me and the institution.
Being fully aware that my concept of planes and lines and
and in general of descriptive geometry were not too sound, I was
obliged to impart my knowledge of this subject to those students

