64

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

The eventful day came and the Inspector chanced to enter a
tenth standard science Class and listened to the class-lecture. When the
lecture was going on, the Inspector intervened and questioned a
student as to how a 'dynamo worked. The student blinked and instead
of keeping silent, he was murmuring to his neighbour. The Inspector
accosted him by saying that great inventors like Thomas Alva Edison
and Michael Faraday were able to invent many new machines at his age,
whereas he did not know even the working of the dynamo. That
student happened to be a turbulent bully of the class and he immediately
surprised the Inspector with a question, "Sir, that is the pitiable case with
me. At your age, Sri. Balagangadhara TUak wrote the book "Gitarahasya, How about you'?" This question embarassed the Inspector asd
he abruptly left the class. The day next· to this incident, there were
groups of students parading in the streets at different spots and all of
them were discussing the untimely death of the Inspector of Schools,
who did their school inspection just the previous day. The fact was
that the Inspector committed suicide leaving a small note in his shirt,
which read as follows, "I end my life, because I could not act up like
Tilak." All could reason out the development of circumstances, which
resulted in the sad demise of the highly sensitive Inspector ,of Schools.
In the field of education, the pedagogue as well as the student are
both apt to be highly sensitive and hence there should be peLfect
mutual understanding of the psychology of each other, which alone
would ensure a healthy state of affairs.
Charles Darwin:

The famous Darwin was trying to explain his "Theory of Natural
Selection" and "Origin of Species," which he was able to expound to
the world after his observations during the five years' voyage. In one of
his lectures, he mentioned that it was quite possible to conclude from
the available evidences, that man must have descended from ape. This
revolting idea of trying to rationalise the evolution of man by the
principle of Natural Selection and not attaching importance to one
primordial Creative Force Viz-God, was not liked by many of his
contemporaries. One such was Bishop Wilberforce. He asked Charles
Darwin, "Was it from your grandfather or grandmother that you got
inspired to put forth such a theory of the Descent of Man from an ape?"
Darwin was not to be cowed down by such impertinent and damaging

