FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

65

observation of the Bishop. He coolly retorted, UI would rather prefer
an ape to be my grandfather or ancestor than intellectuals like you, who
do not wish to accept sensible ideas such as I gave now." Quite often,
we find newer scientific ideas receiving such damaging oppostion from
contemporary people but many a scientific discoverer brave such
opposition and maintain the validity of their findings.
A Lunatic Asylum:

An American and an Indian were going about Madras City.
sightseeing. The Indian showed the important sites in the
City. Whichever building the Indian showed, the American poohpoohed, saying that the smallest of the buildings in America will be like
the L. 1. C. building in the City. The Indian wanted to teach him a
lesson. He took the American to Kilpauk mental hospital and pointed
out to him the fine bungalow type of the building over there.
Immediately, the American retorted that America abounds in such
bungalOWS. The Indian revealed to him, "It is quite necessary
that you, Americans must have many more such bungalows
in your Couutry. This is the lunatic asylum or mental hospital of th-e
City." The American was thus cut to the quick and he realised his
mista-ke and apologised to his friend.
Outright Nationalism:

It is common to find in Russian Journals and books several excerpts here and there, devoted for enunciating and defending the ideals
of Russian Nation. For example, in a Science book series, in the chapter
on Hydrogen Bomb, a good discussion of the thermonuclear reaction
and its development is there, followed by a paragraph at the end, which
says that even though several countries are preparing hydrogen bomb,
the Russians only are trying to use the hydrogen bomb for peaceful
and constructive purposes and not for destructive purposes. The
Russians have developed this propaganda spirit to such an extent that
they would not brook -any achievement in any field, not topped by a
Russian. When th~ first successful scaling of Mount Everest by Sir
Edmund Hillary and Tensing Norkay was on the front page of then
Newspapers all over the world, there was a report from a Russian
Journal that one Russian had previously done a successful climb on the
Mount, but it lacked publicity. Yet another case is that when it was

