66

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

announced that the library in a particular city (not a Russian one) was
the largest in the world, there was the Russian comment, that the library in Moscow is unparalleled and takes the first place. This tendency
of Russians to claim credit for each and everything in any field is revealed by the jocular popular story namely when Adam, the first man
climbed the tree in the garden of Eden to pluck the forbidden fruit, he
was surprised to see another person perched on the branches of the
same tree and on enquiry, the person revealed his name to be papilov!
Juxtaposition

Justice Hog had an interesting case, when a criminal Bacon, by
name, was pleading his best to show that he was not gUilty. Bacon
could not convince Justice Hog of his innocence. As a last measure of
self-defence, Bacon pleaded, "Hon'ble justice! Your name is Hog. My
name is Bacon, which normally refers to the flesh of the animal 'hog'.
What a similarity is there between our names! Can you not release me
at least for this semblance? The Justice laughed at his remark and said
"Hog (a hog) becomes Bacon (bacon) only, when it is shot". The sentence was confirmed.
A repertoire:

Andhra Kesari Late Sri. T. Prakasam, a ready-witted lawyer had
a lucrative practice. The Judiciary h.ad a great admiration for his
poihted observations and wonderful advocacy of the cases, which he
handled. One day, it so happened that one of the Judges, who happened to hear Sri. Prakasam's arguments in a particular case was tired
of his observations and so remarked, "Hullo! Mr. Prakasam! I have
been hearing your spirited arguments all this time. An your arguments
enter through one ear and get away by the other without making any
impression. Why is it so? Mr. Prakasam resourcefully retorted, "That
is because there is nothing in between the two ears". Those assembled
in the court, laughed and the particular judge also joined the chorus of
laughter in appreciation of Mr. Prakasam's readY-Witted reply.
Unity And Division:

A politician was explaining to his audience, how when there is the
feeling of unity in a society or Nation, there can be no selfishness, egoism
and parochialism and how, when there is disunity among the people,
these bad traits reign very rampantly and eat into the very vitals of any

