FIFIlI ANNUAL NUMBEll

67

body-politic. He was trying to give several illustrations in support of
his arguments and he remarked that a careful look at the two words
viz. 'Unity' and 'Division' will reveal that there is only one '''in in the
word 'unity' and three "i"s in the word 'division.~ The'!' or the ego
will have a smaller sway in corporate life, whereas the ego of man will
show its ugly head in practically every walk of life in a divided state of
affairs and lead any country to ruin at the end.
Home - Ground:

It is quite natural that a person feels more confident and assuring

in the field, which is familiar to him and in which he can have a say. If
it is a field quite strange to him, he becomes a silent spectator or listen
to what happens or transpires in the surroundings. To illustrate this
point, we have a familiar day to day incident. It is common sight to
see people going for a walk, accompained by their pet dog. When the
pet dog happens to come across a formidable new dog, it remains very
close to its master and follows him without barking at the new dog.
This is because the dog is traversing new ground. with fear of being
overpowered. But when the dog is well within the master's residential
campus, the dog will start barking at whatever and whosoever attempts
to enter the campus. The dog is not worried about the fact whether it
is equal to the task of opposing the intruding animal or otherwise but
mustering all the courage because of its anchorage in the homeground,
it begins to bark at any intruder. The dog is simply not worried about
the effectiveness or otherwise. Similarly, a person feels like butting
himself in, during conversation, if a familiar topic is being discussed.
(This is one of the many illustrations given by Sir. William Bragg, the
Nobel Laureate in Physics, during his l~ture on "The Nature of the
Living Matter" in Presidency College, Madras on 16th December
1963.)
The trained pet:

Of the easily domesticated birds and animals, the parrot is unique
in that it can be trained to speak the different languages nicely. Once
trained to speak, the parrots will easily reproduce the same sentences
over and over again any number of times. Several instances are there
when the parrots were· used to solve certain intricate problems.

