68

INDIAN INS1'lTUTE OF 1ECHNOLOOY, MADRAS

It was during the reign of Lord Krishna Devaraya that, of the
Sixty-three nayanmar (devotees of Lord Shiva) idols'made of Panehaloha (five metals, including gold), installed in the local Shiva temple two
were stolen by the avaricious priest of the temple. The priest thought
that nobody would be able to find out the theft because the number
was fairly bijZ. It so happened that one of the regular visitor to that
temple, a vedic scholar by himself, noticed that two metallic idols were
missing. He could easily surmise that the priest alone could have
snatched them away. But be did not want to meet Lord Krishna.
Devaraya since he was not easily- accessible. So he planned to bring
the priest as well as the goldsmith who was an accomplice in the shady
transaction, to book, by a tricky method. He trained his pet parrot
for the purpose. He wore a turban, like Lord Krishna Devaraya,
seated himself before the parrot and trained the parrot to speak the
following words:

"Oh! Krishna Raya! Krishna Raya!
There were Sixty-three metallic idols in the temple before,
Now, there are only Sixtyone to be seen;
The temple priest, who has stolen the idols
And the goldsmith, who turned the same into money,
Both remain as free citizens still, unpunished."
The moment the scholar sat before the parrot, wearing his turban, the
parrot will repeat aU the above lines.
On one Friday evening, Krishna Oevaraya was going on a protession with all paraoharnalia. lust when he was about to cross the
scholar's house, the scholar with his turban on, sat with his parrot on
his house-top, Krishna Devaraya seated on the elephant was on the
same level as the house-top, Just when Krishna Devaraya came near
his house, the scholar sat in front of the parrot.
The parrot started repeating the usual lines quite audibly.
Krishna Devaraya was attracted towards the parrot and he listened to
its words intently. He immediately ordered his servants to book the
parrot-owner and the parrot and bring them to his Court.· Thereupon,
the scholar revealed the nasty game played by the temple priest and

