FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

69

the gOldsmith. Kristina Devaraya summoned the priest and the gold~
smith. Both of them pleaded quity of the charge and were punished
equitably.
There is another instance, in which the parrot could not come to the
rescue of its trainer cum owner. There was one court poet Banaveera
in a palace, who was fairly well versed in all scriptures. There used to
be an annual literary contest in which poets from all over the province
used to participate on invitation. This Bapaveera used to triumph
over the rest for several years in succession. The secret of his triumph
was this. He trained a parrot to speak the following lines,
"Oh! Ye! poets! How dare you enter this con est ?
Don't you all know that Banaveera is a literary lion, who is
unparallelled for his eructition. Better retreat. and save your
prestige."
These lines, the parrot will repeat before the intending
contestants every year and hearing these lines of the parrot, the other
poets used to think; "The Court-poet's parrot itself speaks so intelligently, then the poet must be extraordinarily learned. There is no
point in our competing against him". So thinking, all prospective
contestants used to back out an~ in the absence of a conte:;t, the Court~
poet used to emerge. out as winner of the contest. This was happen~
ing for .years but ~ a particular year, an young brahmin knew that
the secret of the poet's success lay with the parrot and, he decided
to enter the ~ourt-hall with two well-versed poets on the day of the
contest. When he approached the Court-hall, the par(ot did its usual
routine qf repeating the lines. The Brahmin had taken a cat with him.
He just exhibited the cat before the parrot. The cat being a nightmare for parrot, disturbed the composure of the parrot. The parrot
began to squeal out in fear. All the lines, which it used to repeat were
forfotten. Several poets look part in that contest and the Court-poet
was beat black and blue. Thus the trained parrot, in spite of. the precious training, could not come to the Tescue of its master.
An astute beggar :

One fine morning, a beggar approached a rich person in a city
IQcality and fervently appealed to him for charity but in vain. The beggar

