70

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

sat right in front of the rich man's bungalow and started weeping
aloud. The rich man asked him, why he wept lilCe that,
The beggar replied, "Lord Shiva is dead; Therefore I am weeping." The
rich man asked him, "What rot are you talking?" The beggar added,
"Sure, Sir, you may be knowing that it was Lord Shiva, who drank
the great poison, Halahala, which came out of churning the milky ocean
by the Devas and Asuras, using the mountain, Manthara as the Churning rod. So, Shiva died due to poisoning. The cresent Moon lodged
in his hair-mattresses, has gone to the skies; his snakes have gone to
occupy the snake-hills; the Ganges locked up in his crest, has come
down to the earth and is flowing as a river; the human skulls that
Shiva was wearing, have gone to the graveyard; his rhythmic cosmic
dance has taken refuge in danseuses; his third eye has gone to the
wicked people. Only two qualities were left of him, the quality of
giving charity and the quality' of accepting charity, Now the
first quality has taken refuge in you and the second in me, Now that
I have come, please give charity to me. ~'Hearing these ingenious
words of the beggar, the rich man commended his cleverness and gave
some charity.
Faith can work wonders !

Once there was a big prayer congregation at London and many
people were going towards the meeting place, London was suffering
from an acute dearth of rain for a long time and this prayer was
arranged to pray to the Gods for heavy rain. A small boy with an
umbrella spread over, was heading towards the meeting place. Just
then an'elderly person asked the boy, "My dear boy! There is no rain
now. Why are you keeping an umbrella spread over your head? The
boy replied," Sir, Don't you know that there is going to be a meeting,
to pray for rains. Soon after the prayers rain will come and I can
use the umbrella then." Th~ elderly person was very much impressed
with the fact that the boy had so much faith in the efficacy of prayer,
whereas oth~rs did not have any faith in what they did. Unless faith
in one's own convictions is there, nothing substantial can be achieved.
Devotion Excelsior !

Sri Krishna Chaitanya, a. reputed devotee of Lord Krishna from
Bengal made a trip to Srirangam a famous religious centre in the South.

