FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

73

is an artificial creation of those creatures who cannot create anything
else." and then suddenly he would notice that some part of the Generator had not been cleaned or not been oiled. The nearest copper wire
would come in handy for giving. a good speaking to the "nigger".
"How many times have I told you," he would shout over and
above the din and bustle of the machines, "that you must take more
care of this installation than what you take of images of your stupid
Gods?f'
Perhaps Mr. Whitley was under the impression that all this would
have the effect of making Jojo realize that these machines
were more important than any God. He was, in a way, right. Jojo was
quite amazed at the tremendous size and power of the machines. He
was wonder-struck at the way the pistons moved to and fro, the brushes
sparkled and spit blue flashes and the leather band ran shouting over
the shaft.
But all this set up some odd currents of thought in Jojo's mind.
You see, he did not know anything about poles or fluxes, and was
naturally drawn to the conclusion that these machines themselves
developed the tremendous power that they generated.
All this slowly
made him develop a sort of respect for the machines, particularly the
huge, big Generator, which to him looked much more powerful and
majestic than the other smaller ones. Soon he began to imagine that
the Generator was a God - because he thought it was the most
powerful thing in the world - with the other smaller machines ~s His
Nobles and Knights. Mter aU, this God was greater and more energetic and powerful than even the great images of Buddha and Christ that
he had seen - and yet not motionless, but living !
The Generator became so fascinating to him that he would take
great pleasure in cleaning and polishing it. He felt a mysterious sense
of service in doing this. Soon the day came when his dim feelings grew
more distinct, and took shape in acts. He would go every morning
and evening and kneel before the Generator in deep meditation.
His devotion towards the Generator served another .purpose-that
of giving him mental consolation whenever he was bullied or tortured

