74

INDIAN INSTlTUTB OP TECHNOLOGY, MADUS

by Whitley. ''Thou seest, my Lord, how my master tortures me I"~
he would kneel and say, and the angry whirr M the machinery seemed to
answerp "Yes, that rascal! He shall be punished."
Once when Whitley entered the installation, Jojo imagined that a
diffierent note of sounds came from the Generator. They seemed like
the words "Be careful, you rascall" in his native tongue.
Another time when Whitley was doing his routine course of in spec..
dons, he inadvertently touched a live wire,. and got a rather severe shock.
Jojo from behind the Generator saw him jump off and let out a curse.
"He is warned," Jojo· said to himself, and felt considerably
pleased with his Lord.
My pen is not of the type that can describe the various currents
and under currents that circulated in the African's mind. But
this much I can say-when the idea of making Whitley a sacrifice to the
Lord Generator first erupted in his mind, he was filled with a strange
tumult of exultant emotion.
That night the two men were, as usual, alone at the installation
site.
Jojo had to wait for nearly three hours near the Generator in
order to get a good opportunity to carry out his plans. But once, when
walking quite close to the big machine, Whitley felt a tremendous
impact on his side, and before he knew what was bappening, he was
well in the grip of the armature teeth.
.lojo, extremely pleased that the Lord had accepted his offering so
easily, knelt before the Generator and was deeply absorbed in expressing
his gratitude to Him. It was in this state that he was found by the
Chief Engineer of the London Electricity Board, who came hurrying to
the installation the moment he was informed that electricity had failed in
the extremely reliable Whitley's suburb.The sight of what had once been
Whitley-a huge crumpled mass hanging from the front of the Generator
was enough to tell him the reason for the failure. It was only natural
for him to imagine that Jojo was praying so that his master's soul should
rest in peace. Therefore it was not in the least difficult for Jojo to draw
the Chief Engineer to the obvious conclusion of suicide.

