FIFI1I ANNUAL NUMBElt

1S

In fact, I think no other murderer has met with as little suspicion
as Jojo encountered. The dismembered remains of Whitley were removed
after an expert had given a verdict of suicide, and nobody-not even the
few reporters who had gathered suspected Jojo or anybody-else
of any possible hand in his death.
"Have I not served my Lord?" whispered Jojo to the Generator as
soon as the place hed been cleared of all, except the Chief Engineer,
who had temporarily taken over Whitley's work. The note of the
Generator rang out full and clear, and Jojo felt. He was feeling very
pleased.
As he looked at the big whirling machine the strange
fascination of it that had been a little in abeyance since Whitley's death
resumed its sway. Never had Jojo seen a man killed so swiftly and
pitilessly. The big machine had slain its victim without wavering a second
from its steady beating. It was indeed a mighty God 1
Suddenly the beat of the Lord seemed to become louder. Was the
Almighty still hungry? His servant was ready.
Jojo looked round. The Chief Engineer was the only human being
nearby. He moved stealthily towards him, and, gripping the poor
unsuspecting fellow by his waist, sVI-'Ung his body towards the machine.
But this time the force with which he flung his victim towards the machine wasn't quite sufficient. The Chief Engineer fell a few inches short
of the machine. Dazed, he was just awaiting the final kick which would
send him into the teeth of the armature, when the welcome sound of
footsteps sounded on the floor. The Inspector of Police had come to
get the Chief Engineer's signature on a document pertaining to Whitley's
death.
The next moment Jojo left his prospective victim· and darted
towards the Generator. The Inspector stood staring as Jojo caught the
naked terminals in his hand, gave one violet convulsion, and then hung
motionless from the machine, his face violently contorted.
It took the Chief Engineer full five minutes to take his eyes off the
dead African.

