Superstition
M. Vikram Rao
Recently I overheard a European remark loftily to his compatriot, as they were walking down a New DeIhi· street, "These Indians!
They are such a terribly superstitious lot; positively disgusting." Even
as he said this, he studiously avoided walking under a ladder propped
up against a lamp-post, making a wide detour in so doing. My
first thought on seeing this was the oft quoted adage; "People in glass
houses should not throw stones at others." Possibly his action was
inadvertent, and merely from force of habit; but it just goes to show
how often supersitition guides our actions, very often, as in this
case, belying our very words. It is nothing unusual to hear a man
deriding others for what appears strange to him, and in blissful ignorance of his own foibles and superstitions.
To identify superstition with false belief or practice would be
misleading. For in the first place, the field in which it is generally
found, the magics- religious, is the very one in which the standard of
truth and false hood is most subjective and fluctuating; in the second,
a custom or belief, religious or otherwise, which is false may nevertheless be accepted at some times and places by men of enlightened
intellect and reason. We describe a man as supersititious, who in a
modem community, seriously believes that the breaking of a mirror
will bring him bad luck; but the original holders of that or similar
beliefs were perfectly reasonable in their view, according to their lights.
Supposing that a shadow or reflection was in some sort a part of the
soul, they naturally concluded that to break it, was to injure the soul
or life itself. They had merely been misled by a false inference. It is
interesting to speculate why, following the same reasoning, diving
into a pond was not considered unlucky, for in effect, it meant the same
thing.
In England, a child will normally never be initiated to school life
on a Thursday. The reason for this can possibly be traced to the
Bible, since it was on a Thursday that King Herod ordered the extermi-

