80

INDIAN INSTlTUTB OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

nation of all the babies in the country, in an effort to kill
the prophet Moses. The superstitious dread still pervades the
minds of other wise level-headed people of the jet age, that the day
would be an unlucky one. It is also another superstitious belief,
that the appelirance of a cornet protends the death of a prince or the
precipitation of a bloody war. Then, of course, after a war has begun,
there is always somebody to say that a cornet had been observed some
time before,
Many are the superstitious beliefs that have originated from
mvthology; Tn rural areas especially, superstiti(ln is more rampant.
Here the more simple minded f(llk 'believe imoliritlv in all that has
been handed down to them from S!enerations. anti nothing will convince
them of the futility of their beliefs; and they will quote various instances from what they consider as history, for. we like the Greeks. have
developed a mythology that is so invivisibly mixed up with history that
it is not possible to distinguish fact from fiction. Superstition and
l'eJigious belief have a very thin line of demarcation. For example it
is a religious belief to have a particular season and day for marriages,
whereas it is a superstitious belief to embark on a journey on a 'good'
day. But the two are so closely allied that in some cases you are in
doubt as to which it is. For example, I wonder in which category
falls the belief in Orthodox South Indian families of not employing as a
cook, a man whose ancestry produced a barber! J have often heard it
said that orthodoxy breeds supersitition. A statement of this sort
has to be viewed with caution. for though undoubtedly orthodoxy is
more or less synonymous with strict adherence to various beliefs, more
often than not these are religious rather than superstitious. There is a
little known belief, which dictates that when a member of the family
sets off on a· journey, the utenisls used by him in his last meal before
leaving shall be washed first, before those used by others I cannot
conceive of any religious motive behind this. I say this with the full
realisation that I am laying myself open to the risk of a deluge of irate
and possibly convincing arguments; though it is more likely that the
original reason for this belief has been lost in ancestry.
There are some people who are inherently superstitious as is proved
by the following curious incident. We were walking to the examination hall for our Annual examination. The morning's paper (part one

