FIFIH ANNUAL NUMBER

81

of the afternoon one) had been" rather a debacle; so I was not surprised
to see a visibly disconcerted expression on my friend's face. But the
reason it appeared, was not the paper, but the fact that a mongoose had run across our path a short while ago. He was troubled because he didn't know what omen it was; of the fact that it protended
one either good or evil, he had no doubt. Another instance was in our
first year, when on the way to Highways Workshop for our carpentry
Annual examination, we chanced to see legs protruding from the foliage
of a tree in front of A. C. Conege. On this occasion, my companion
refused to look in that direction for fear of repercussions in the examination. The fact that I all but broke my work piece that day goes to show
nothing, for I did the same in the terminal examination too'.
One of the commonest "imported" beliefs is that of saying 'touch
wood' and suiting words by action, a gesture purporting to prevent the
distasteful event just mentioned by the speaker from befalling him.
Another popular form of westerns superstition is the keeping of
good-luck charmsJlnd mascots. The latter invade all fields from
battle to foot ball. 'They range from goats to goosewings (A stately bearded goat marching at the head of a regiment, or a pungnacious bulldog on the deck of a destroyer, is no uncommon sight) Ma~cots are very
common in the realm of sports and·it makes faciating reading to
know these 'little-known facts about well known people'. But very
often these facts turn out to be artifices and tricks designed to intrigue
and interest the public and are publicity stunts in essentials.
For example
Superstition is often a function of the. atmosphere.
one who generally scoffs at the existence of ghosts and the like in broad
day light is likely to revise his opinions radically and start nervously
at every shadow or noise, if left alone in a lonely building at night; the
advent of a storm of course would add colour to the proceedings.
Belief in ghosts falls well into the realm of superstition, for it fits in
very well with the dictionary meaning - "credulity regarding the supernatural'. It is the first word of the definition that is striking, for it is
the credulous and gullible section of the modern world which fall a
prey to entirely new beliefs based upon modem conditions and having
no near parallel in savage or ancient custom.
It would, I think, be propitious to stop the essay at this stage for
it is coming dangerously close to thirteen hundred words. Not that
I'm superstitious, but just to keep on the safe side!

