DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS
The Deparment of Metallurgy has been started with the object
of providing instructional facilities leading to the Bachelor's and
Master's degrees in Metallurgy and research facilities in the subject,
leading in the case of suitably registered candidates, to the Ph. D. Degree. Although the Institute itself commenced its academic work in
1959, the academic activity of the department started about 2 years
later, with the first staff appointments made in 1961.
Instructional and research facilities in Metallurgy have been limited
to a comparatively very few institutions in the country. Even as
recently as a decade ago, only two or three institutions provided. such
facilities and the number of metallurgists coming out of these institutions annually was very small. The importance of this subject has
been however so well realised and the demand has become so great that
a good number of new institutions have been set up in the last few years
and the total number of metallurgical graduates annually coming out
is of the order of 300. This department has been planned to train
about 40 metallurgists annually at the graduate level and about 10 at
the higher levels and is expected to reach these targets in four or five
years.
In common with the rest of the Institute, the Department of Metallurgy has received the bulk of its scientific and ancillary equipment from
West Germany. The equipment, as can be. imagined, is of the most
modern type and would enable the department to be counted among
the best equipped laboratories any where. The equipment, could be
roughly grouped into the following, laboratories :
1. Physical Metallurgy: In this, the structure and properties of

metals and alloys are studied.
2. Extractive Metal1urgy : Here the production of Iron and Steel
as well as the extraction of the non-ferrous metals and
alloys and their analysis are studied.
3. Mechanical Metallurgy: In this are included the testing of the
Mechanical properties of metals and a]]oys, and their
shaping, by cold and hot working.

