INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
EMPLOYEES CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIElY LIMITED.
The I. I. T. Employees' Co-operative Building Society was formed
in 1960 with the object of acquiring and developing cheap building sites.
There are at present 80 members on its roll.

2. As the members are aware, the city of Madras is fully developed
upto Guindy, and the value of the sites North, West and East of
Guindy has soared to heights far beyond the reach of the salaried classes.
The are a to the South and East of Madras upto Vandalur is fast
developing and particularly the area around Tambaram is in the grip of
spectacular development with the prospect of its being upgraded into a,
'A' CJass Municipality.

A water supply scheme for Tambaram from Palar river has already
been sanctioned. A drainage scheme is also under contemplation.
There are quite a number of large and small seate industries already
functioning around Tambaram and many major industries and an
industrial estate have been sanctioned and are in the process of being
set up.
The transport upto Tambaram is adequate being connected both by
rail and buses with any part of the city and suburbs. With the
declaration of the Madras as an 'A' class city and consequent additional
emolument expected by the salaried classes, it is considered that
there would be a large efflux of the city population to the suburban

area.
3. Keeping all the above consideratons in view, the Society made
attempts in 1960 to acquire a site near Tambaram. After protracted
correspondence and efforts on the part of the Society with the Collector
of Chingleput and thanks to the personal efforts to our Regi$trar, Shri
R. Natarajan, I. A. S., a plot near Tambaram consisting of 10 acres and
46 cents has since been acquired by the Society. The plot is situated on
the main road connecting the I. I. T. with Tambaram at a distance of
about 6l miles from the Velachery gate. There are buses running every
35 minutes between the site and the campus and the running time is
about 30 minutes. The entire area in between and the proposed building
site is in a grip of development with a large number of building already
come up.

