FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

103

It was truly a memorable week that we spent in the Festival
Camp pitched at the Talkatora Gardens, New Delhi. Eight hundred
students-boys and girls-lived together in an atmosphere of bonhomie
and saw a rich presentation of Indian dances, instrumental and vocaJ
music, and plays. The items presented were of a very high-almost
professional-standard. For the literary minded there were debates
and group discussions.

On arriving at the Campus it did not take long to get into the
spirit of camraderie. Formal introductions were not necessary since
the authorities provided each participant with an identification badge
which had to be pinned on the lapel. Accommodation was provided
in tents which were furnished with eight charpoys, one table and two
chairs. Two different universities shared each tent.
The Festival was inaugurated by Mr. Nehru and Valentina Tercshkova, the first woman cosmonant, was also present on the occasion.
Three sessions in the open air theatre followed by a camp fire till late
in the night made each day a really hectic one.
The I.IT. Madras made its mark in the English Debate and Group
Discussions. The MaJayalam shadow play staged by us was a novelty
which appealed to many. Small though our contingent was, I am
proud to say, we became very popular. Our sense of humour-poor
jokes (p. 1'8) and "sick" ones too-stood us rin good stead.
Prof. R. Krishnamurthi, Contingent-in-charge, made his presence felt
even more so by acting as a judge for one of the Group Discussionsa singular honour I may tell you. Dr. N. Klein was perhaps the most
popular "Resource Person" in the camp, not because he was the only
foreigner, but because of his ability to fit comfortably into any agegroup.
A special variety entertainment programme was put up on
Deepavali Day. Shrimati Indira Gandhi was the chief guest. The
I.I.T. put up a popular Mlllayalee folk-song which captured the
capacity audience with its catchy time and energetic rendering. "The
Pricess of Poplipotam" a six minute farce ppt up by the lI.T., the
Calcutta University and the A.I.I.M.S.-Delhi. brought the house down.
V. Siddhartha was the announcer for the evening.

