104

INDIAN INSTlTUTB OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

In concluding I must point out the top-class arrangements made by
the authorities. Each tent was supplied with five newspapers every
morning; hot water was provided for baths; a one-day laundry service
was provided at a nominal cost; a special officer looked after the
railway bookings for the return journey; a box of delicious Indian
sweets- was given to every participant on Deepavali Day; and many
other littie things which cannot be mentioned but which -nevertheless
impressed upon us the care of detail paid by the authorities. The food
served was of a high standard and the candte-ligh t dinner on the last
day was truly a feast. Many delightful hours- were spent in the
excellent canteen on the campus. The central vista of the camp was
adorned with the coat of arms of the Universities on one side and
illuminated totem-pole like posts on the other. The flags of the
participating universities fluttered, on a high ridge at one end 'of the
central vista.

It was colourful and it was gay; it had its higher moments and it
had its serious moods; hearts were lost and laurels were won; and we
returned richer richer in the knowledge of Indian culture; richer in friend ..
ship and experience; and richer with the knowledge of our own
shortcomings!

LITERARY ACTIVITIES REPORT (1963 - 64)
Yet one more year has gone by. Slowly but steadily we have been
able to establish a reputation in various fields of literary activity. On
the home front, it was difficult to dislodge the old veterans like
Mr. Siddhartha, Mr. Ananthu, Mr. Vaswani and Mr. Venkateswaran.
But in the various activities conducted by other Colleges, we were
fairly successful. Our debating team was successful in the Madras
Junior Chamber of Commerce debate and as far as quizes went, there
was a sudden fall of the once mighty "Cobra", while young freshers like
Venkatesan came up to fortify the ranks. The "Saturday Evening
Club" Trophy and the Eng. College Trophy were ours and credit goes
to Mr. Nageshwar., Mr. Venkatesan. Mr. Venkateswaran and
Mr. Siddhartha. The grand finale of the literary activities was the

