GAMES REPORT FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR 1963-64
The year opened on an enthusiastic note-this being our first
year of participation in the Inter Collegiate League Tournaments. Our
Start was very promising and it appeared as though the proverbial
beginner's luck would enable us to walk away with a few trophies
atleast. But on~ the opening period wore out, we found that it needed
plenty of practice and experience to maintain that fine start.
Now for a record of our achievements.
Our strong Table Tennis Team proved their worth by walking
away with the Sportex Inter Collegiate Trophy. In the Bertram Tournaments conducted by Loyola College our Team once again did their
bit by sweeping the boards. Our champ Subba Rao won the singles
very convincingly and Subba Rao and S. Gopalakrishnan took the
doubles.
The perfonnance of our Tennis Team was also very creditable.
We reached the finals of the Inter Collegiate League by scoring wins
over strong team from the Law and A. C. Colleges. In the finals how.
ever, we lost to our neighbours the Guindy Engineering College by the
odd match in three. Lionel Paul of our Institute won the Jain College
Singles Title and was the runner-up in the Bertram and 1. I. T. open
singles and R. P. Shetty and Lionel Paul finished in the runners-up
berth in the I. I. T. Open Doubles.
Though our Hockey and Football Teams did not win any
trophies, special mention should be made of their performance as they
defeated and drew with many strong teams, which have in former
years, provided the nuclear of many a University Team. Our Hockey
team entered the Jain College Tourney and did well to make the semi:final grade. where they lost to Annamalai University. the ultimate
winner. In the recently conducted Krishnamurthi Cup Tournament
they have proved themselves once again. by reaching the finals with a
string of good victories behind them.
A small Athletics team was entered in the Presidency College
Open Athletic Meet, and though our entrants were not in the peak of
training. their performance was very promising especially that of G. Sri.

