108

INDIAN INSTflUI'E OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

kanth (second in the 400 metre hurdles) M. Bhaskaran (second in the
pole vault) and Jacob Dominic (second in the Long Jump and the
Hop step and jump).
Our CoUege Sports Day was held in December and many of the
old records fell by the way side. G. Srikanth of the Shivaji House
proved to be the top athlete by winning the Individual Championship
comfortably. The interest on the sports Day was heightened by such
Items as the Ladies Musical chairs, the staff race, thechildrens' races and
the staff vs. students Tug of war in which the students pulled up the staff
members for a change.
The Inter I. I. T. Sports Meet held in Kharagpur in December
was opened by our Director Prof. Sengupto after a very impressive
marchpast. Our teams made a creditable showing and special mention
was made of P. K. alia (Gymnastics) G. Srikanth(Athletics) M. Kalappa
(Tennis and Athletics) and Lionel Paul (Tennis). Our Tennis team in
particular did extremely well to win the Tennis Trophy despite the
strong opposition provided by Kharagpur. Three more of our teams,
Table Tennis, Hockey and Volleyball reached the finals, but luck eluded
them and they had to content themselves with the runners-up positions.
In the Gymnastics, Olia proved himself a veritable one man team and
it was, through his sterHng performance, that our team managed the 3rd
place. The honours of the opening day belonged almost entirely to
M. Kalappa. He not only helped us beat Kharagpur in Tennis. but
in between matches, he competed in 'the Hop Step and.Jump, in which
he proved himself peerless. At, this stage, I think I would be expressing the opinion of all the participants when I say that we are extremely
grateful to the Kharagpur I. I. T. for the warm hospitality extended
to us and I sincerely hope that in the next Inter I. I. T. Meet which is to
be held here, we can, to some extent, repay their kindness.
The first Inter-Collegiate Sports. Meet· conducted by our Institute
on the lst and 2nd Feb. 64 was quite a success despite the relatively few
entries from the city colleges. The meet was opened by our Director
midst much fan fare. Right from the start, the strong contingent from
Y. M. C. A. College of Physical Education started putting on pressure
and they ended up right at the top of the points table and thus annexed
the coveted Director's Trophy. Gurunathan (Institute of Leather

