N. C. C. REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1963 - '64.

'

Under the compulsory military training scheme to all able bodied
students NCC training is imparted to all Students of I, n, rn B. Tech and
I yr. of three year degree course from July 1963. The present strength of
the three Rifle coys is 660 and arrangem.ents are under way to raise
technical units. The unit has become richer by the addition of two
officers - 2ILt. M. Ramamoorthy from the O. T. S., Kamptee and 2/Lt.
M. Sarvotham from the o. T. S.. Pachaiyappa's College, Madras.
Both these officers joined the Unit in July, 1963. 2/Lt. Radhakrishnan
who was with us last year, has left the Institute.
Our NCe schedule consists of two parades two hours each week.
The training programme is exhaustive though, perhaps, a liIt]e exhausting
as well from cadets point of view and includes drill, weapons training
field craft, map reading, first - aid and aid to civil power.
Out of 18,000 cadets participating in the Promise Parade held at
Madras on the 15th of August, 50 of our Institute cadets were selected
for presenting the sole ceremonial Guard of Honour to His Excellency,
the Governor of Madras. Our Senior Under Officer, R. Rajamani won
credit for himself and the unit by commanding the Guard of Honour
with distinction.
400 of our cadets and officers participated in the annual NCC Day
on the 20th of October. Our cadets were selected to lead the column
at flag march. 350 cadets of our NCCR Companies took part in
range practice on the 12th and 13th October.
Another "red - letter" feature of our NCC activities this year was
the selection of cadet Jai Kumar for attending the mountaineering
course at Manali, Punjab, arranged by the Director, NeC, Madras &
Pondicherry. He had the
distinction of climbing a peak
18,200 feet high. Under Officer T. K. Romakrishnan was selected to
participate in the Republic Day parade at New Delhi in January 1964. '
However he could not do so due to his annual examinations. Under
Officer V. Varadarajan is selected for the all India Summer Training
Camp. The Institute N. C. C. Day was celebrated on 4th Deeember
1963 and Maj. General Virendra Singh, Director - General, NCC,
New Delhi was the chief guest.

