109

FIFTH ANNUAL NUMBER

Technology) proved his worth by winning the shorter races comfortably.
John Lukose (Y. M. C. A.) made a clean sweep of the throwing events,
while the longer distance races were shared between Viswanathan
(presidency) and Jain (Y. M. C. A.). Other prominent performers were
Francis Leo (A. C. Tech) who soared to dizzy heights in the Pole Vault,
Ethiraj (Y. M. C, A.) who won the Long)ump and the High Jump~with
comparative ease, Shwewe (Y~ M. C. A.) the popular winner .of the
High hurdles and Royappa (presy.) who edged out KaJappa in toe Hop
step and jump. Kalappa however had the satisfaction of breaking the
Institute record in no less than 5 out of his 6 jumps. Anand Swaminathan did creditably well in his second outing in the High Hurdles by
finishing a close third and G. Srikanth put in a fine burst to nose ,Anand
Swaminathan out of the 3rd place in the 400 metres. M. Bhaskara'n kept
up his consistent performance in the Pole Vault by taking the second
place and Ka\appa and S. Puri kept up the good work by raking the
3rd places in the Long Jump and Hammer throw respectively~The
surprise package of the whole meet however, was the fine showing of our 4 x 400 metres relay team of Krishna, Shrest, Swaminathan and Srikanth who finished a close second to the strong YMCA
quarter. The high light of the evenings proceedings was the Ladies'
Musical Chair, where the I.I.T. entrants managed to stave off a strong
W.C.C. challenge and win the first two places.
The meet was followed by a sumptuous tea, after which the prize
distribution was held. The Chief guest of the evening was Dr. Gerhard
Fischer, the German Consul in Madras a champ athlete in his hey day.
He gave the athletes a lot of advice and further encouraged them by
instituting a trophy for the best individual athlete. This trophy was
shared by Lukose and Gurunathan. Mrs. Fischer distributed the prizes.
The Schroeter cup for the Inter House General Championship incidentally went to Ashoka House, whose captain M. Bhaskaran received the
trophy· amidst tremendous applause.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our Director, Registrar, the
President of the Gymkhana and the Physical Training Instructors for
their unstinting help and guidance which went a long way towards
inspiring and encouraging us greater efforts.
LIONEL PAUL

Sports Secretary.

