Issue No. 9

Date: 29.3.1981.

EDITORIAL
Hostel Detectives - Alert!
WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE
THE (MANQt\K RAG) RIPPER
Known to be staying currently in Mandakini Hostel.
Beware, guys, Jack is among us now. He is a mean, vile fellow,
who believes in doing things while people are asleep - an abject
coward. He's already struck 4 times, leaving absolutely no clues.
Me seems to be someone who has access to the notice board keys.
JACK

The games held in celebration of Holi were most refreshing
and exhilarating, and provided a good change from the usual games
which involve stiff competition. It was fun to see a hundred
17+ year-old boys playing balloons and it was apt that the prizes
were won by the kids.
The road race was also a lot of fun. But Seshadri hadn't
expected the partiCipants to want their cool drintis soon after the
race! (At least we went along only for the cool drink.) No cool
drinks had been kept in the ffidge. Anyway, the participants and
ot~ers were happy enough to have OCed warm (cool) drinks.
The Hostel Day went off quite well. Many very good songs
were spoiled by the mike system. The grub was quite good, though
unfortunately some items got over.

******
PERIOS - OH! What a PAIN
- Rajeev J.
Usually, when someone asks you, 'How's life?~, you are expected
to say, 'Fine,' but I have noticed that here in Mandak one comes
across answers like '5---,' 'Lousy,' 'Bad,' 'Sick, I etc.
Is it really all that bad? Perios certainly present a very
controversial topic. After an almost carefree schooling, I mean no perio ,business or Relative G stuff, perios form a massive problem
for lots of us. There is no doubt that it is absolutely necessary
to have periodical tests in an Institute like ours to maintain the
high level of academic standards for which I1Ts are famous. The
choice of having or not having perios is not ours, and it is quite
reasonable t09, but this is not what I wish to say. It is the way
in which peri os ruin everybody's happiness is what I WR wish to
emphasise.
Every perio, there is a lot of enthusiasm among the students
- mug till 10 p.m., go to Quark or Tarams, for a tea, fags, etc.,
come back and mug till the late hours, say 1 or 2, catch one of your
hostel inmates still awake to wake you up at 5, mug till 6, go for
an early brekker, just have a wash, and hitch a lif* to HSB or ME
and MH. After all this and then after 50 minutes of head-scratching
and desperate attempts to solve problems, one comes out and consoles
himself that there is always another perio ~o do better in. Thus
goes on the eternal cycle here in lIT. It is deuced painful to find
that chaps having mugged less than you get fabulous 90+ marks, and
you land up in the late 60s.
Once in a while, someone or the other tops, and the topper
comes and asks you your results. It is such a ghastly situation
that once or twice I had the irresistible urge to jump him and
quash him. It would be pretty hard on SR ~j you if you were in
such a situation.
Finally, just one thing:
P for Pain and P for Perio.

******
RIDDLE

(1)

M.E

I am greater than God.
Dead people eat me.
If you eat me you will die.
Who am 17

THIS

- G. C. Prasad.

