dairy-man reined in curiously, he let out a startled hoot.

7A Beach of Silver

In all his twenty years of road-and-wagon experience, he

had never come across a more sorry sight, and he was down
on his knees beside the child at once, dusting the breeze~
cooled arms and speaking gently as she stirred up from a

A herd of cows was passing by in a slow, shuffling
bunch, hooves kicking up a moving blanket of dust, and the

his huge, gnarled arms, and consoled her as she began to

girl stopped to watchthem, thumb in mouth, two grimy books

cry, much as he had often consoled

in a restless hand. her dark, coffee-coloured eyes so wide

when they had snapped tendons and cast shoes in hurtling
him to some remote dairy-call 0n those stormy days when

open that you may have found it difﬁcult ever to ignore

them.

Nor could you look away from that elﬁn form, the

dream-saturated world of her own.

He swung her up into
his trustful

horses

dust-covered bare feet, a wispy, feather-ﬂoating quality that
only a fairy can naturally claim. Even as she watched, one
of the black cows made a deep, bellowing nmse and broke

all the slush and debris of the earth seemed to accumulate
on the roads. Being the worldly and understanding father
of two daughters, he soon managed to put the girl at
ease and found that her home was close by and on his

away from the herd, running expertly at right angles to
the path, straight into a grassy ﬁeld, moving black against

route, or at least that was what he deduced from her vague
instructions. Taking her to the wagon, he set her down on

the green

an empty milk jar Wlth her books, patted her tousled head
and made faces at her until she grinned and ﬁnally burst
out in a shriek of laughter. The falling mantle of night
was now drawing tightly around them, and singing brokenly, the reins hanging in limp catenary—lines from his
ﬁngers, the dairy-man rode on until the girl cried out for
him to stop, then sprang out ofthe wagon and ran straight
into the arms of her distressed mother, who was on the
verge of a nervous collapse. She thanked him profusely

Then, as the farm-boy shouted and ran after

the adventurous cow, she drew her thumb away from her
lips and laughed, peal after peal of sheer exuberant delight,
thumping her knees with the books until the pages were in
danger of coming apart from their moorings.
Soon the dust had settled back on the forgiving earth and
one more lively facet of passing life was deeply etched into
her colour-thirsting mind.

Those moving limbs,

those

disorderly smudges of brown, black and white as they had
tumbled past in the glorious sheen of dust-fogged sunlight,

‘ Come in, Senora. You too, my little one. I’m sorry
I
cannot get up from my work now. Once I sit down

1 have to finish this without pause, otherwise it will never
be whole in my mind.’
.The woman nodded and moved to a corner of the studio
With _the girl. There was complete silence except for the
chirping of birds outside. After an hour, the old man
ﬁnished the scene to this satisfaction, and laid down his
brush and palette with a sigh. He found the child standing
beSide him, gazing raptly at the canvas, and he was struck by

the intenSity of her dark eyes as they swivelled up and down.
He took her into his arms and ran his rough, bony ﬁngers

through her mop of brown hair.
‘ You like it, little one ?’
The woman, who had been watching silently and beaming
at them, shufﬂed forward and waited until the amused old
man had ﬁnished playing a traditional game of nose-rubbing With her child.
‘Her name is Rusa, Senor. I am her mother. Ihave
come to you because people told me that you are a great
artist. You see, Rusa is not well in her mind, she stands
at one place and becomes lost, or she goes to sleep in the

middle of her classes, and some days she runs away and
cannot explain where she has gone or where she has come

from.

I am frightened for her.

The doctors, they say

the eager bovine bid for liberty, the excited chase and

declined politely and was soon on his way again, sing-

she is all right and laugh at me and tell me all children will
be like that. ButI know something is very diﬂerent about

ﬁnally, the recapture, each full of coloured wealth, were
images that were growing so crystal-clear and photo-sharp
that it almost began to hurt inside her head. She shook
herself as though to get rid of these things and tried to
focus her glazed imagination on a wood—pecker as it ﬂoated
by in a sharp curve and settled down to begin a deafening,
harsh staccato at the lower branches of a nearby oak. The
bright orange of the plumage and the dark, shadowy base of
the tree combined and suddenly ﬂowed into a single burst of
fantastic colours and she was caught up again on the edge

ing very lustily as he guided his horses into the/ night.

my Rusa. So I bring her to you.’
The old man was silent for some time.

of a familiar rainbow-like shell, a SWirl of radiance so poig-

side,

nant in its mind-numbing loveliness that it made her want
to laugh and cry at the same time. And as she stood
transported there on the dust-road that was her way back
home from school, a worried mother was fretting and
waiting for her daughter with a cold cup of milk.

luminosity of the morning-sun, was momentarily sealed

Only once, it is said, does an artist see in the course of his
life a sudden stark revelation of everything that naturally

in a mute chamber of pure light and shadow, colour and

comes to his dreams but rarely condescends to ﬂow from the

radiation and the countless sparkles and glitters that every
one of us can see but very few can comprehend. As he sat
there, squinting and drunk with delight, his huge, coloursplotched beard ﬂew up in the wind and patiently, he

skill of his ﬁngers and the warmth of his heart. When he
opened the ﬁrst sheet which the simple-minded woman had

i

Q

i?

*

Whenthe dairy-man passed along the path that evening, he
was whistling snatches of a half-forgotten folk-song and
madly struggling to make the horses trot in phase to the
tune, and he was so engrossed in his task that he almost

missed the recumbent ﬁgure on the boulder along the
roadside. grimy, covered with dust and leaves, and fast
asleep. Beside her. two equally dirty books lay ﬂapping
and open in the breeze. Exhausted by the big efforts to
shake free the accumulated pressure of her images, she had
simply curled up and dropped into oblivion. Now, as the
4

and even invited him to share supper with her, but he

ll:

iill

1*

is

‘ I will help you, Senora.

There was a gentleness in the sunlight as it splashed
in broad yellow beams upon the untidy mess of canvassheets, planks, upturned bottles and bits of string spread
on the ﬂoor of the open wooden cabin. Sitting crouched
on a three-legged stool, the old painter waited with p0ised

brush until his sun-warmed senses told him that the grand
moment was upon him

‘Because of these, Senor’, she laid the sheaf of papers
before him and watched him with imploring eyes. The
old man put Rusa down and picked up the papers and
unrolled them.

Except for the long, high-pitched

reveille of his pet rooster from some strategic perch outthe painter,

But tell me, I am only a pain-

ter, why do you think I will be able to tell you what the
doctors cannot tell?’

engrossed

in

harnessing

the

white

It

Q

I!

3

given him, the old man knew that this was his moment of
revelation. In the scene that lay spread out before him were

worked upon this frozen drop of natural stillness, drew it

all the vistas and rolling stretches of colour, brightness,

upward in his breath into a turbulent pool somewhere in

darkness, agitation, peace and joyousness and sorrow and
a million shades of feeling too sharp to have a name, too
plentiful to be numbered. And all these from a child, a
mop-headed, playful little'girl whose fretting mother was
laughed at by pompous doctors for being so concerned
about her daughter.
‘ Please, Senor, now do you see why I came to you 1” her

his chest and discharged it, gently, deliberately, through the
ﬁne, faithful bristles of his brush, upon the blank, barren

emptiness of the canvas, his eyes dilating with pleasure as
he watched the wonder springing to life before him.
it

ﬁll

it

It

The old painter looked up from his canvas. A woman
stood at the cabin-door, holding a young girl by the arm.
In the other hand, the woman carried a sheaf of papers.

Voice quavered and as she watched his face. the contraction

of his brows, the sad and gentle expression on his face was

