thing is as it was when built, except that Shah Jehan, the son
of Jehangir, later added one more structure to it.

As is

typical of all gardens built by the Mughals, this one too has
innumerable fountains to bathe the many ﬂowers.
In this lovely setting, we saw the son-et-lumiére which
told of an episode in the life of the two lovers; of their

quarrel and reconciliation. That we saw both, the Urdu and
the English shows, Speaks amply of the interest generated.
Chashme Shahi, or The Spring of the Kings, is another
place of interest. In bygone days, the kings had a particular
spot reserved exclusively for themselves from where they
drew their drinking water and here, a garden and a monu-

ment have grown up. What makes the water ﬁt to be drunk
by kings is its apparently beneﬁcial digestive properties for
which I can personally vouch . having eaten like a gourmand
after sharing the privileges of royalty.
Gulmarg, or ‘ The Flower Valley’ is at a shiver-inducing
altitude of approximately 9000 ft. above sea-level. It is
about 60 miles from Srinagar, our base, and about 10 miles
from Tangmarg. An apt name because it is from here that
the road narrows down. Whereas the road upto Tangmarg
has astanding climb, after that it is a journey into space.
One can go up in anvthing that moves on wheels or on
ponies. My advice is never to take the latter' it means
asking the Almighty for an inﬁnite limit of tolerance.
In spite of its tremendous height, Gulmarg was surprisingly warm, but the weather there is said to be notoriously
unpredictable. Gulmarg has a 1 km. rope-way system, but
whereas in the Alps, closed cars glide on ropes, here we have
chairs for two, dangling precariously 45-50 ft. above rocky
terrain. The occasional shudders of the snail-pace chairs
have, I am convinced, appreciably reduced my life span.
The people of Kashmir are predominantly Muslim. A
beard that I then sported often deceived people who mistook
me for a Muslim and a caustic-looking spec1men cautiously
enquired whether I was one. A reply in the afﬁrmative saw
a transformation. to add to the ﬁre, I conspiratorily
questioned him as to the whereabouts of the border, where-

upon, assuming that I was intending to head out of town,
he clamoured to come with me. Thoroughly enjoying
myself by now, I agreed after a mere hint of discernible
ponderance and we decided to leave the very next day as I
was ina terriﬁc hurry.

Concerning the apparel, an argu-

ment ensued, for although we had to trudge through the
he insisted that warm clothes

weren’t

necessary

blissfully unaware of the changing world outside.

Kashmir

has hardly any industries in the true sense of the word, the
majority indulging in handicrafts of the most exquisite
variety and in the weaving of intricate designs on shawls.
This creative sense of beauty has come down through ages——
from father to son to grandson. The government too ﬁnds

10

op ouw tutu] +°

Cinohmeshabl

G

snow,

whereas I insisted that they were. Well, folks, came mom
and that was the last he saw of me!
The people here live in abject poverty. Standards of
living remain as they were 27 years ago, but the people seem

