astonished, I was angry. How can he stop when I wave
my hand. Now I couldn’t curse him, damn him and
generally send him in the direction of hell.
Kindness is born only in a soul which has known kindness. I have known no kindness from bus drivers and
anyway I have no soul. I lost it the other day whenI
traded it away for a ripe mango.

I came to the conclusiou

(a weighty one at that)—it is indeed arare day. I was
satisﬁed with this. ButI still hadn’t decided what to do.
Should I run away from all those leering simians and their
snnpering faces. But for all I know the entire busload may
crawl out and run after me. Why should they do a thing
like that ‘2 I know my maths pretty well and my probability
theory better, and logic of course is my forte.

Combining

the three as follows (one table—spoon full of each), I made
my deCision. If I ran away, what was the probability that they
would chase me ? You cannot answer this unless you have
performed the experiment any number of times (ideally)
till your legs ache from running and your heart is just one
beat from bursting. So I didn’t know the probability. It
could be 1 and then God save me. Thus I dialecticised with
myself and concluded it was safer to board the bus, and
board it I did, with a heart burdened with fear and a brain
weary from overuse. I looked at all the people in their
seats and all the people clinging to those shackles on the
ceiling, presided over by the conductor at the top step
leaning casually on the bannister. I boarded the bus. I
was on the second step. The conductor blew his whistle.
He blew it shrilly into my ear. My mind went berserk,
but even in that instant I saw it all before me clear
as Moses saw the commandments—the conductor was
even more vicious than I had given him credit for;
he was going to trip me and push me off the bus.
I couldn’t jump 011' because the driver in collusion with
the conductor was now speeding. So I jumped into the
bus, and jumped smack into a not so elderly female. I
looked around fearfully. But no one seemed to even look
at me (except myself); the conductor was all smiles and
asked me very politely where I wanted to go. He even
accepted my ten rupee note for my 20 paise ticket. He
didn’t order me off the bus; he didn’t ask me why nincompoops such as I didn’t carry 20 paise on them. He just
accepted my ten rupees.
I was so dazedI forgot to ask him for the change;
whichI realized only after getting off the bus. So now I
cursed him squarely and roundly (and also rectangularly
too).

It was a ﬁne morning after all. I didn’t mind the loss
since they (driver and conductor) were bound to be struck
down by the plague if it hadn’t by now got them.
S. P. RAJ.

JUST FINGS
I have an unabashed admiration for the Seasoned
Traveller—the kind of person who, in a Western epic,
dozes easily in the stagecoach, oblivious to the heat and the
ﬂies, while lesser mortals make frequent and painful
contact with the woodwork behind them. One occasionally
comes across the modern version of the type on a train.
This person uncurls himself from his foetal posture on
the middle berth, casually climbs down without rapping
his head or barking his shin on numerous sharp projections,

that genial dispenser of happiness at Coronet. Armed with
abottle—opener and a smile, he watched indulgently as
they mixed exotic concoctions, exchanged uproarious jokes
and, if the mood was upon them, sang in ragged chorus.
And if some of the regulars stopped to shake his hand as
they staggered out, who would blame them ? In some
indeﬁnable way, he was the symbol (as was the opener) of a

good time that had come to an end.
O

i

O

O

0

and announces with just the right amount of weariness

that we ought to have reached Itarsi forty minutes back.
The whole thing is magniﬁcently done, rather like Jove’s
descent from Olympus. I nurse various bruises and look
on in envy.

One of Wodehouse’s minor classics is about the Wily
Pathan. It appears that while you’re shading your eyes and
looking for him on the palzaar, he sneaks up behind you
from the maidaan. I always thought we were the only

It’s not one of those things that comes with frequent

people who cribbed about the way things are run in this
institute. All the while, some enterprismg staff reporter

I’ve travelled around quite a bit and still jam my

has been creeping up from the maidaan with his typewriter

thumb when Itry to pull down the shutters. Whereupon
the seasoned traveller tells me kindly that I’m doing it the
wrong way. I invariably go through the traumatic experience
of seeing the soap slip out of my hand and go through the
little hole they have in the toilet.

travel.

between his teeth. Mud has been slung. Charges have been
levelled. The ﬂick-knives are out in the open. And Zeus
has revealed a ghastly sense of humour. When the dust

ﬁnally settles, the Campastimes Editor Will still be wandering
around

for

articles.

Only everybody Will be too busy

skirmishing in the newspapers, to write. . . .
I fumble for my tickets while the examiner’s initial
distrust turns to dark suspicion, and ﬁnally locate them
just as he’s reaching for the handcuffs. The seasoned

traveller meanwhile hands over his ticket for inspection
without even looking up from the book he’s reading. His
book has an inviting blonde on the cover—the only reading
material Ihave is Galbraith’s The Aﬁ‘luent Society. And
after the long grimy journey, I draw a porter who has
two-inch fangs and is prepared to use them. The seasoned
traveller saunters by, carrying just one air-bag and looking
like the proverbial daisy.

1

$

it

The last week was something of a revelation. Even the
normally godfearing succumbed to the urge. The old oak
chests were emptied. Stray coins counted. Armed With the
just rewards of a lifetime of moderation, the most sober of
the junta made a beeline for Coronet. For when one is
forced, Willynilly to go on the wagon, the deSire to step
high, wide and plentiful, to go on one last memorable
bender is irresistible. And so it was that crowds of the
happy drunk, the ﬁghting drunk and _the merely drunk
waited for the 10-35 at Adyar every night. Defying all
known laws, the mountain

had come to

*

O

I

0

One feature that the average lITian has in common with
that estimable pig, the Empress of Blandings, is the ring he

wears in his nose. But while the ability to be led in any
given direction is admirable in a pig, the same ability
hardly reﬂects to the lITian's credit. A goodly number
signed the petition protesting against the unnecessary

expense on the convocation. Having done their bit for the
cause they sat back, and waited for results. Zeus thereupon
issued a proclamation that the binge was costing us only
thirty grand. At this point, one would have expected any
normal thinking person to say lzzatso? Instead of which
the average lITian sallied forth to listen With monumental

There’s no place like home, really.
.

i

Mohammed,

patience to a series of dreary harangues. The prize item
was undoubtedly the one about the bullock cart. It appears
to me that the logical improvement to the BC era that yet

remains to be made is for us to develop an improved Mark
II bullock giving. as Badri says, about 1.5 bullock power.
However, that isn’t the potnt. The address was duly

delivered in a neutral monotone, rather like a litany. For
thirty grand, you are entitled to expect people to have
something to say.

We got instead, a ghost-written speech

that only narrowly escaped being ghost-read.
MAHBSH.
19

