Campastimes deeply regrets the sudden demise of Mr. Kaleem
(5/7) Electronics) and Mr. Raoindran (Research
Scholar, Chemistry).

might be able to change that situation this year.

Well ! Another new semester.

Guys have come and guys

have gone (mostly gone), but the Meet goes on forever. So
how are the teams shaping up ?
In athletics, we’ve taken a body blow, seeing as how half
the team seems to have passed out.
David Roby,
Chandran Paul, Ashok Chanda, Jakes.

Sigh!

However,

there is a silver lining. Fresher Loboisa hat man in the
sprints, and there are rumours that one darn good athlete
may be coming into Industrial Engineering (thanks there,

Dr. Anantaraman). Another consolation is that no other
IIT has a really strong athletics team~—Delhi have lost
individual champion Upadhyay and the terrible Daljit, so
that’s last year’s champions out of the running. We seem
to be strong in the throws this year.

Indesa, John Louis,

Benjamin, plus a couple of newcomers like Chandi and
Kasbekar. Chou’s back, so the triple jump gold is in the
bag, perhaps along with both the hurdles. Then there is
Venky and Bahal in the sprints, Javed in long distance,

Jayasmgham in high jump, Chinnathambi and Sageer in Pole
Vault, Karl for long jump and triple. Activities started
pretty late this year, and the non-medallists meet wasn’t any

thundering success. Still the outlook’s fair. Call it a
probable silver.
Basketball-well, that trophy’s been with us so long that
it has practically grown roots here. This year’s no exception, either.

The team roster is a nice, comforting one;

looking at it, one can feel the gold in the kitty already.
Chandran Paul’s gone , but in spite of that the team is still
extremely strong. Dayal, Gopal, Krishnakumar, PK and,
of course, the evergreen Krishnan. Same team that wrapped
up five major tournaments last year. No problems here.
Footer has an unenviable record. The hard fact remains
that we haven’t scored a single goal in any meet so far. We

The new

In shuttle, Eddy’s gone.

A serious loss which can‘t be

captain—Satish—is good , uses his head as well as his feet,

laughed off.

unlike some people I could mention. The team seems to
have more enthu this time, despite losing to Thyagaraja
(tough guys) in the inter-collegiate. One good newcomer is
Chandra Mohan from Guindy. Meet chances? Let’s be
pessimistic and call it a bronze.
The hockey team of yesteryear has practically disappeared.
Raghu, Chikki, Raj, David, and Kanni are out, practically
every good forward we had. Defence is solid, with Suri and
dependable D‘Soo,Bozorgi and Savant. Chandoke is a
newcomer (and a good one) in the forward line, with vet
Jayakumar. The team is good but inexperienced; they’ve
made it to the semi~ﬁnals of the inter-collegiate so far.
Should chalk up at least a silver at the Meet.
In gymnastics, we’ve lost Badami. The number of

year. Our chances are uncertain, but a Silver would seem
to be a reasonable (if slightly optimistic) prediction
The outlook in volleyball is good. Despite the fact that
we’ve lost four of last year’s players, the spikers are still

gymnasts in the team has been increased to six this year, from

four last year. Pratap, Abdullah and Royo form the backbone. Gymnastics has been Delhi’s forte for quite a few
years, but this year three of their top people have passed
out. Kanpur is coming up, though, and we’ll have some
stiff competition from them.

Our team made a bronze last

year; we have good chances for a silver this time. It may
be recalled that there was quite a storm about ‘partial
judgement’ at the Bombay meet; this year it has been
deCided that the judges’ decision will stick, impartial or
otherwise.
Tennis has taken a setback with the loss of Prof. and
Ramkumar but Captain Dani rates our chances for a gold

as very high. Only team likely to give trouble is Bombay.
who still have Fazalbhoy. Our doubles pair is the same as
last year’s Dam and Sekhar. Sekhar, incidentally, made it to
the semi-ﬁnals in the Bertram Tournament, going down to

there.

Frank and Kumar are still there from last

Under Linus the team has a pretty good chance of

Winning through to a gold , not a silver like last time.
Weightlifting has always been a Madras speCiality and this
year (with a little bit of luck) it should stay that way.

Though we’ve lost three good men in Shidore, Apte and
Gunda, newcomer Rustom (heavyweight) shapes up well.
Overall? Well, we hauled out the slide rules and did a
little bit of ﬁguring; crossed our ﬁngers and ﬁgured some
more. Approximate total comes out at about 65 points,
which should get us the championship for the fourth time
running.
Hopefully.
As far as non-meet items go, cricket is ﬁrst on the list.
Half the team’s gone here, too—Gouri, Murali, Dipankar,

Kakes, and Ramesh. Bharadwaj and Rajamani are the two
freshers. There seem to be quite a few problems regarding
equipment, here as well as in hockey. Chronic shortage of
bats/sticks, even this late in the season. Needs a bit of

looking into.

Cricket chances in the lnter-U—end of the

year—are uncertain, with only Mahesh, Kasbi and Naxi to

fall back on.
The swimming team’s coming on well, despite the fact that
the pool still isn't ready. We had indiVidual medallists in
open meets last year, and should be able to repeat the performance this year. Efforts to have it included as an inter—
IIT meet item died a quick death.
The ball badminton team (yes, indeed—we do have one)

Krishnan Jr. The doobles combo made it to the semis in
the Bertram, too. In the inter-collegiate, we’Ve won so far
and should top in our zone. A bit of tough luck that
partiCipation in the inter-U is out of the question , the dates

has done fairly well in outSide tournaments. but the captain

are ﬁxed as Nov. 5th and 6th, smack at the beginning of
exam time.

As for Chess and Bridge, the standard is fair. There Is
no formal Institute Bridge Team, but we do have several

The table tennis team is unchanged, last year’s champions, they‘re a cert to make it this time too. Rajagopal,

good players going. The Chess team has lost KK, but
Sudhir and Aiyaswamy should put in a bit of good work.

Ravi and Parthasarathy are as good as ever.

sure as in basketball.

is screaming about eqUipment shortage

It‘s a regrettable

fact (nonetheless true) that nobody takes this game very
seriously. It‘s a situation that needs to be remedied.
.

The gold’s as
SRIKANT.

23

