Consequently the IITian often ﬁnds his work lacking in
meaning. He does not have an emotional involvement in
his work because he feels he has no control over it anyway. Everything is decided "for him.

Physics may be a very beautiful subject but the activit
y of
pursuing knowledge for "S own sake is pointless. It
is only
one s proﬁt from it that gives it meaning.

This lack of emotional involvement has, at times,
intensiﬁed into an almost truculent indifference to things
that are dangerously awry. Take the case of the ﬁnal year
Mechanical batch. They did not have a Computing
Techniques lecturer for the ﬁrst six weeks of this semester.
Yet there was barely a murmur of complaint. Why?
Because there is a growing conviction in the campus, and
not without justiﬁcation, that even legitimate Complaints
have an uncanny knack of bouncing back.

time spent in a worthless cause.

. Lab-work, as it exists today, is yet another exampl
e of

There is yet another reason for this reluctance to protest.

Fear. The IITian ﬁnds that the rewards for conformity,
obedience, and docility are great and reliable while the
absence of these qualities is often punished in blatant or
subtle ways. So he keeps out of,trouble. Without annoying
the professors, it’s considerably easier to get the degree.
So, withdrawing into the comfortable isolation of the
niche that he has carved out for himself, the IITian says,
~.
' Why stick my neck out ? ~’.

The characteristic feature of the IITian psyche is a deepseated privatism.

He is forever busy doing his own thing.

In matters concerning the larger community he ﬁnds

Editorial

himself helpless. Yet, it is fatally dangerous to aquiesce
to this feeling of individual helplessness because of the
immense power available to the administration and the
professors, over the individual student. Unless the IITian
is willing to break out of the shell of his own personality

and to question every single rule that
It‘s amazing the amount of power educational institutions
exercise over their students. Take the case of the
HR. By a system of rules that the authorities have
concocted, they decide who is and who isn't good enough
to get in. If he is lucky, the aspiring candidate 18 certiﬁed
as a worth-while credit risk. He steps in. smugly complacent of his bright future, full of h0pes and dreams and
of the aspirations of his parents- Five years later he steps
out, metamorphosed into a disillusioned cynic.
During these ﬁve years he is evaluated on the basis of
how well he has played the academic game. how well he
has observed the rules. Rules over which _he has no
control.

For instance, his grades play a decrsive role in

determining his future prospects, yet he is tn no posmon
to question the mode of evaluation. Hts teachers to a
large extent decide his worth as an engineer. yet he can
neither question their ability to teach nor the relevance of
what he is being taught. Treated like a child, he 15. kept
in a perpetual state of intellectual subservrence. He Is the
object, more of attention than of understanding, more of
authority than of control.

he so willingly

obeys, unless he loses that sense of settled response and

begins to probe for the truth, education in IIT will
gradually become a meaningless farce.
In this editorial I wish to focus attention on two aspects
of the undergraduate education—the relevance of the
curriculum and the quality of teaching.
Any form of education must have clearly deﬁned goals.
This requirement is all the more desirable in a technical
institution. So if IIT expects its students to submit to its
authority, it would be a good idea to let them know why.
It should start by clarifying its values by putting things
into perspective and by ensuring that its students are
working for goals that are genuinely held as primary. I
have raised this issue because a lot of stuff that is taught to
the IITian seems to be irrelevant to engineering. For
example, should every IIT student be subjected to such

extensive courses in Atomic Physics? He 15 made to go
through so much of Schrédinger’s Wave Equation and
Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle that he becomes uncertain
of even the second law of thermodynamics. Atomic

havmg forgotten the

Why? Because, after

original aims of lab-work, some

teachers redouble their energy in emphasizing it’s nonessential
aspects. This was amply demonstrated in one of the
undergraduate labs, where the lab-incharge refused to
explain the correct method of calculations for a particular
experiment but spent a considerable amount of time

tnsrsting that the lab-report must be submitted in A4 size
lab-sheets, that the name must be written on the top righthand corner and that the report must appear only on the
obverse srde (a strange proposition, considering the fact
that lab-sheets are very expensive and very scarce).
In other words, academic life at HT is beset by a great
deal of rituals and phoniness. It is commonly believed that
if certain prescribed acts are properly performed, that is,
if certain rituals like lab-report-writing are carried out,
something important will result, although no one really
knows how.
The second point that I wish to focus attention on is the
quality of teaching. The relevant role of any University
is to teach. It is only in this way that it can make a
signiﬁcant contribution to the community. Yet teaching
seems to be the most neglected aspect of the education at
IIT. Just the other day, the Chairman of the Academic
Forum, Prof. Sampath, informed us at the Forum meeting that it is not easy to remove an incompetent
lecturer. Does this mean that the administration is willing
to compromise the future of ﬁfty or sixty students for the
sake of a single teacher? It‘s about time that the IITian
was wearied of these plastic explanations. It’s about time
that he did something.
Those who were here during the employees' strike will
recall the tremendous enthusiasm it generated and the massive student involvement. Why can’t the IITian have the
same degree of involvement now? Does he always need a
crisis to egg him on ‘2

Edited by Sudlp Chunk, Published by Prof. 8. Samuel:
and Printed by 1'. Dim! at the Dloeeun Press.
for the Indian Institute or Teehmlou. Madras.

