liT Madras, November 1969

Vol. VIII, No.2

25 P.

lInaugut'Ql
The OAT did not see very much of the
Gymkhana Inaugural, but IITians did. This
is mainly because 'St. Peter opened the
sluice valves up there'. The programme said
• 6·45 p.m., 3-9-69,' but that was strictly for
the birds. The Gymkhana members had tea
bang on schedule, at 6 p.m., but the Inaugllral
started only at 7-45. which only goes to show
how much tea was conSllmed. Finally the
function got under way at the CLT.
A string of speakers came to the mike and
gave the gathering the benefit of their words,
the Gen. Sec. herding them on and off the
rostrum at the proper time. Dr. Klein told
us that the Inaugural was inaugural only in
name, as the Gymkhana activities had started
off in earnest quite some time before. The
Director, breaking out in an unexpected vein
of humour, kept the crowd roaring with his
wry observations. He hoped that the enthu·
siasm of the representatives :waS not transient.
He assured us that the Gy mkhana would
receive more funds if money was forthcoming
from the authorities at New Delhi. Then
came the various secretaries. Wisely, most
of them kept their speeches to manageable
lengths. which in IITese amounts to thirty
seconds of listening. Beyond this limit, the
crowd is apt to join in; and that simply
wouldn't do at the CLT. Many pious reso·
lutions were expressed, many PJs were aired,
and everyone finished in rare good humour.
Then came the entertainment. Miss Usha
Menon was the emcee, which just goes to
show that even Ramani can make the right
decision at times. IITians were impressed.
They are impressionable that way.
The entertainment rolled merrily along with
hardly a hitch: Ramani was there to adjust
the mike every time it conked out. MuraH,
Cash and Allen· gave- us another of their
T. V. Krishna
enjoyable performances.
burst out in mimiCry, and IITians said,
• not bad J ' A bunch of freshers, 'the little
boys Who grow up so fast " tried their hand
at producing loud music. They have the
proud tradition of the Beat~ X, the Acid,
the Beat- X
I. etc. 'to maintain. Hope
our eardrums stand up-to it.
The CL'f groaned with relief when finally
the crowd spilled out into the night. They
were on their way to the OAT, in the hope
of seeing as much of Gengbis Khan as the
projector man would permit.

±

-Campastimes.

Our Regular Features
E(JUorial
Cup
By lite Way
From J(ere allu :lhere
Sport/olio

gas
S({uare J)ance
J:effers fo fhe -eoiior

8
9
8
12

"
8

13
13

AT THE

INAUGuMnoN

ANNUAL DEBATE
The annual debate was held ott the sixth of
October. The topic: 'Capital pWJishment
should be abolished.'
The small crowd that turned up at the CLT
could not have Come with very high expectations. Sadly enough, they were proved
right and mediocre is about the only word for
the general standard of the debate. The
choice of the topic in itself left something to
be desired. Inevitably, few of the speakers
put forth original stuff, and as many as seven
out of the fourteen speakers used or comment"
ed on the clz'che 'An eye for an eye. . • .'
The emphasis was on style and the employment of exotic accents and sweeping gestures.
Apparently these stunts seem to work with
the judges, who, poor souls, have nothing else
to go on.
As for the individual speakers, V. S.
Krishnan gave us yet another exhibition of his
verbal prowess and walked away with the
first prize. B. Kumar finished second and
WIIS quite impressive. Howevel' one could
not help feeling the lack of substance in his
speech. H. Shankar and V. Raja finished third
and fourth respectively. The former tended
to mix his metaphors, one of his statements
going something like this: 'the annals of
history are choked with the smoke of the flesh
of •. .' G. K. Pillai brought a touch of
humour to the proceedings and was unlucky
not to get a better placing. The others hardly
deserve a mention except for the chap who
gave us a Sunday morning sermon and the
other bloke who thought he was a lawyer in
the final scene of a Hindi movie.
Mr. P. Chidambaram, the eminent
lawyer and criminologist, was the chief judge,
and easily the best speaker of the evening.
Besides the judges (Professors Sampath
and Gupta), and Dr. Zuern, only three other
members of the staff could be seen around.
This, after the wide publicity Harcharan & Co.
gave to the event, was rather surprising.
Talk of staff-student relationship. • . •
-Campastimes

Here's to you-HAPPY HOLIDAYS AND
GOOD HUNTING!

BOCHUM~AN

Piloto ~ Kubendran

EXPERIMENT

The University of Bochum has implement~
ed an experimental programme in the field
of university administration. Dr. Kubler. an
educational expert and the Director of the
Rectorat at Bochum. talked with us on the
experiment a~d revealed certain interesting
facts.
On the continent, the pattern .of education
adopted after the Second World War has
hardly changed or kept pace with the economic development. In most universities, the
freedom and autonomy of the Professor is
absolute. Also, degrees are awarded by the
State and not by the university. LatelYJ an
attempt has been made to restore the autonomy of the university and to place some
restrictions on the Professors. Students have
however. been left out of the picture.
Bochum is the outcome of attemps to solve
the growing problem of student unrest. The
university incorporates some revolutionary
features in its administrative set up. A third
of the Senate consists of elected student
representatives. The director, as weU as the
heads of the departments are elected for one
year terms. In addition, a staff member is
appointed as the Director of the Rectorat for
a four-year term to look after student affairs,
full time. and to act as counsellor. These
features have successfully promoted staff~
student relationship and prevented student
unrest. But what came next surprised us.
Only 50% of the student members attend
the Senate meetings and quite a few of the
seats allotted to the students in the Senate
are vacant II J Dr. Kubler attributes this to the
psyc.hology of students, who want things only
as long as they cannot get them.
Inevitably, we popped up with the question, • Would it be possible to introduce such
reforms in our Institute?' Dr. Kubler:' My
stay in India has been rather short, and my
stay in the Institute shorter still, but from the
personal impres~ions that I have gathered, I
would say that such an experiment may
indeed be possible.'
Dr. Kubler is at present on a world-wide
tour, principally to gather information.
-Campastimel

