November 1969]
ADVERTISEMENT

K. KALYA-NARAMAN
If you stand in the quadrangle of Ganga
Hostel and yell • KAI{E I ' you lire likely to
hear an answering yell of • YA '. I know
this sounds unlikely, but its true. The
creature possessing this improbable conditioned
reflex has been depicted here by a kindly
and generous artist, who has gone out of his
way to flatter his subject. It is known to the
authorities as K. Kalyanaraman, 1.143/65.
and its identity card photograph, which picks
up where our caricaturist left off, has been
known to cause regular heart attacks behind
the cash connter when it claims it tuition fee
l·efund.
A long time ago, when his friends began
abbreviating KK to Kake (rhyming appropriately with rake), 1.143/65 displayed that
determination to be different which. characterises the local hero: he decided to pronounce
it Rake, to rhyme with nothing at all. At
school Kake was an easy-going kid whose
vocation in life was rigging up gear systems
for large and involved Meccano models. His
one year in college passed uneventfully, except
for the occasion when he tried to convince
his English lecturer that golf is pronounced
gowf. Then came a little-publicised event
which has proved disastrous to the Institute
and nothing short of calamitous to Campastim8s. Kake joined the lIT. Don't ask me
how, because if there's one thing he has
less of than influence, its brains. Suffice it to
say that he got in. They were a bit lax that
year. They eVen took me.
Right in the first year, Kake got busy
undermining the foundations of the Gymkhana.
He was one of the two freshers present at
the freshmen-senior get-together held by the·
Gymkhana in our fir;;t year. Of course not
all the get-togethers were held in the aegis of
the Gymkhana. There Were very many •••
• . • • • er • • • • . • . . • informal gatherings.
There was the time when Rake, in the role
of Kickloo the Rhesus Monkey, held the
hand of Venky, who was sitting in Mussoorie
combing his hair with a boot brush in the
role of Babloo the Baboon, and sang 'Teri
pyari pyari soorat ko kisiki nazar na lage r' He
may have been a trifle imperfect in minor
matters like time and words, but Rafi would
have envied his vim and gusto. StilI, to my
mind, there is nothing to beat the occasion
when one of our raggers growled 'Strip,
you l' at Kake, expecting weak and horrified
protests. His face, when Kake obligingly
peeled off his shirt and started in real fast
on his trouser buttons, was a study of
horrified alarm. 'No l' he screamed, r I
didn't mean it !' Kake, always the artist
was obviously dissappointed that his Gypsy
Rose Lee act had been cut off short. Indeed,
so reluctant was he to leave it incomplete
that they had to bribe him with a secondhand Mathur to get him to put his shirt
back on. Thereafter Kake decided that the
best way of bumming text books was to go
and get ragged down Godavari or Saraswathi
way.
Taking advantage of his position in the
Committee, our hero began to publish little
bits of his •••••.• Cr • • • •• brainstorms
(and that's being polite) in Campastimes.
Kake has a hearty laugh, which goes 'Haha-ha-HA-ha-ha-ha' just like that.
Those who lived in his wing in those days
claim that he frequently emitted this noise,
generally with an isssue of Campastimes
opened at his •••••• er •••••. contribution. My surmise is that this was less in
approbation of his own scintiUating humour
(hue what l) than in enjoyment of the
hilarious fact that a thousand odd dopes
actually got conned into reading his (Haha-ha-HA-ha-ha-ha) article. In later
years he turned up an editorial nose at stuff
not vastly inferior to his own early • • • . • •
er • • • • • efforts. This episode might go
to show how hard-up Campastimes once was
for material; or how the standard of humour
(Stop saying hue-what, you dope. Humour,

3

CAMPASTIMES
get it ?) has gone up; or how the standard of
Kake has gone up. It might, but it doesn't.
It chiefly goes to show why Kake is known
as Crook Kalyanaraman in certain circles.
He even crooked his way through to the
Editorship of this rag! (But he isn't Editor
now, obviously.) It's no good trying to
defend him. What honest, upright, god-fearing
Editor would have perpetrated Double Cross
Crossword? Or space for Doodling? In
this crook-like way, however, Kake has made
the rag really interesting, and unearthed a lot
of new talent. But just lately he had a long
overdue attack of Sel~iorit£s, and wrote a
serious editorial on the ethics and duties of
editorship. How are the mighty fallen! Hey,

hold it I D'you think that he occasionally looks
at his Editorial and goes Ha-ha-ha-and
all-those-other-ha's thinking how saps
like me actually took it seriously? Quite
likely. Once a crook, always a crook.
Kake's extra-curricular activities are legion.
Indeed, he would have been fully occupied
without bothering to take any courseS. He
has been Editor of Campastimes, under-officer
in the NCe Air Wing and guiding spirit of
the Outdoor Club. At one time he was
Publications-cum-Garden-Sec. in Saraswathi.
He has built projects for the Science Fair.
He is seen regularly on the football field, and
was formerly in the habit of sailing across
the lake near the temple on a raft. For a
short while he was a member of the Boat
Club, but this .interlude was terminated with
a total lack of mutual regret.

Unlike most local heroes, however, Kake
remained fancy-free. His unfailing courtesy
to the entire fair sex was matched only by
his aloofness. I use the past tense advisedly.
The most severe ascetic must eventually lapse,
the sternest hermit, .fall from grace. And so
it was with our hero. It was the Word that
corrupted Kake-~eight pages of it as a
matter of fact, written in a neat slanting
hand. The letter told of a magazine to be
started soon in - - College. (Now, noW.
No questiolls. If you must know which
college, ask Kake.) Since they had 'all'
(all who, is my question) been < very
impressed' by Campastimes (loud and prolonged cheers), the writer felt (poor thing)
taat the Editor's advice would be useful.
The crux of the letter was an appoitmcnt at
the Drive-in on Saturday evening. The writer
said she would wear a blue sari so that our
hero could recognize her.
To say that Kake Was perturbed by this
letter would be to say nothing at all. He
was distracted, perplexed and in a quandary.
Except that it did not require him to wear a
Chrysanthemum, the whole letter looked like
something straight out of an early Wodehouse. And that could be explained, too.
It seems someone pointed Kake out to this
dame duririg Cultural Week-so said the
letter. And so she didn't need no chrysanthemum to identify him. (Hmm. Now
that's what I call promising. But all my
friends tell me I have a low mind.)
The question was, was the letter genuine?
Kake asked a few guys about it in strict
confidence, but opinion was divided. Lobo
went into one of these A-phones-B-totell-C-to-ask-D routines, to find out
whether a Miss - - - actually studied in- - College. Considering how easy it is to
get a call through to or from IIT, this Was
a fat lot of help. Roy, soon heard about
it, and consequently within fortyeight hours
everybody else did, too. Venky told Kake he
ought to go, and he says Kake upped and
made a speech on Indian Woomanhood, or
Why Girls shouldn't Meet Strange Editors
at Drive-ins. Lokanathan turned up by
, chance' _(some chance) just as Kake was
setting out for the Drive-in, and was heard
saying seriously, 'Be careful, Kake. Every
chap I knoW' who got involved with a dame
lost a year'.
When Kake returned, much later in the
evening, he announced that he had met her,
and that the discussion was satisfactorily
completed. This sounded a little too good
to be true. Satisfactory perhaps, but completed ? Come, come. Besides, Shri Kake
was very busy on several subsequent W'eek~
ends: there was so much work to do for
Campastimes. Of course. It's wonderful
what camouflage the old rag can provide
(see illustration). But between you and me,
I have a feeling I know who wrote that
charming letter-all eight pages of it.
There is a general idea that Kake is an
influential guy, and that he knows the
Director very well. Don't you believe it.
The truth is that Kake once changed from
Aero to Metallurgy and back to Aero, all
within the space of three short days. This
got him so much talked about in official
circles, that even now they can hardly help
recognizing what, for want of a hetteL' word,
he calls his face.
Kake is a quiet, soft-spoken chap, chiefly
because he never did have much to say.
Over the years he has become generally liked
and respected, which is why no~one believes
the various incidents recounted above, though
they are all (well, nearly aU) quite true.
Such is the fate of the prophet in his own
country. Kake usually stays level-headed in
moments of crisis. 1 disagree with the view
that this is because he takes a long time to
ca tch on, and that he actually gets flustered
the next day. He is greatly admired for his
constant cheerfulness and his lively sense of
humour .•••.... by his _younger brothers,
who know what's good for them.
I know I'm expected to say that he's Ii
great guy, or that he's a real nice chap at
heart, or somethipg like that, 50 1 won't.
Personally, I think he's a
!

-So PARAMESHWARAN.

