CAMPASTIMES

4

Japan-World B~at¢r

_r::
... ........
The Other Side of the Coin
What is your idea of Japan? Modern?
Industrialized? Efficient? Well maybe, but
that's not the whole story.
We got to l,nowa bit more of the 'whole
story' when Dr Zuern told us about the
visit he recently made to Japan. He saw a
lot of Japan, both of the well-publicised industrial and economic aspect-and also the
cultural, historical and natural aspects.
The main purpose of the visit was to attend
the Annual Conference of the International
Institute of Welding, the Institute of Metallurgists, in Kyoto, and the big Japanese
International Welding and Material Technology Fair in Japan. He found it possible to
see a great deal of Japanese industry, universities, and national research institutes. Indian
participation in the activ:itie~ o~ t~e International Institute of Weldmg IS sIgmficant-we
were the. only country in Asia, besides Japan,
to participate in the Conference. The Indian
Institute of Welding, being of recent origin
and under the handicap of having very few

peaked pagoda type structure so charapteristic of the Far East; the natural settings with
running water and rocks and grass strewn
across the scenery-these are significant to
the Japanese. Japanese mythology is full of
colorflll figures, but these seem to have little
religious significance. We were impressed by
imaginative and picturesque statues of mythological entities called Storm and Thunder.
But the Temple of the Thousand Buddhas
completely took our breaths· away. . • .. there
was so malty of them, row upon row!

Japan-Tokyo. Whether there is love in
it or not, there are Geishas. Geishas are
traditionally very important in the social and
cultural life of Japan. With their piquantly
Japanese kimonos, their elaborate hairdos,
their tiny shoes and their ever-so~ Japanese
manners, Geishas are a symbol of the leisure
hours of Japanese life.
Houses in Tokyo are constructed of light
materials - - no doubt keeping in mind the
fact that earthquakes are likely to drop in for
a visit at any time. Dr Zuern mentioned that
doors and windows were of the sliding variety:
members, was unable to meet the entrance and
membership fee requirements ( ! )-maybe
UNESCO will help I
We could fill pages with the remarkable
industrial and economic achievements of
Japan. • • • but We prefer to dwell on other
aspects, which perhaps may be more iJlteresting.
Japan is small-barely the size of California-but it offers a lot for the eye to see~
We realized this when we went through an
extensive collection of slides brought back by
Dr Zuern. He conducted us on an armchair
tour through Kyoto, nearby Nara, and the
metropolis of Tokyo.
The old imperial capital of Kyoto abounds
in Buddhist temples and Shinto shrines,
palaces and parks, reflecting its history and
the ancient religions of Japan-Shintoism and
Buddhism. Traditional Japanese architecture
has its own unique flavour-we have the

(November 1969
it's a wonder "ihy this idea isn't more widely
adopted in other countries too. Wall
paintings and flowers constitute most of the
interior decoration. Japanese paintings are
famous and flower arrangement is a highly
developed art in Japan. By our standards
Japanese houses would be strangely devoid of
furniture. They prefer to sit on mats on the
floor around little tables which are scarcely
more than platforms. The Japanese posture
of sitting is characteristic like many of the
traditional customs practised by the people.
Music, Japanese style, is quite different from
what we are used to from our experience of
western music: cIasllical or pop. Indigenous
Japanese musical instruments are generally
of the stringed type, with a few wind instruments to make things audible.
But Tokyo is a large modern city: hence,
it is like any other large modern city in many
respects. The skyward climb of dwellings
and bUlliness houses, the clover-leaf inter"
sections and tiered roadways, the clamorous
surge of internal combustion engines, the
unending ebb and flow of humanity: these
are the heritage of any modern city, But
Tokyo outdoes most of them with its exhibits.
One gets lost in contemplating the dimensions
of the creature.
No description of Tokyo would be complete
without a mention of the legendary Fujiyama.
It is a classic example of a volcanic peak,
now quiescent and snow-capped. Generally
enshrouded by a bank of clouds, it is an
impressive sight in the sunshine.
The loyal Japanese bowed to the Emperor

(and hence to Fujiyama) every morning in
homage. We, too, shall bow to Fujiyama
and take leave of this fascinating land. We
thank Dr Zuern for an informative and entertaining evening and hope that this gives at
least a faint idea of the fascination that moved
Dr Zucrn to say, C These foolish diplomats?
With all their opportunities of studying
foreign countries and people, they have to
spend all their time attending parties and
d~inking cocktails I' We wonder if they are
Wise ••••

-Catnpastim6$

