CAMPASTIMES

November 1969]
PERSONALITIES

DR K. A. V. PANDALAI

An undergrad class in Brooklyn: a forty
year old gent gawking from tbc first bench:
an aged professor sitting in the last: a timid
youngster, glued to one corner of the blackboard, trying to unravel the mysteries of
engineering statics. That' timid youngstcl"
was none other than Dr Pandalai making
his debut. It is difficult to imagine Dr
Pandalai petrified in class but • the beginning
was an agonising experience' he recalls
(feeling thoroughly amused about it). • I've
outgrown my fears now,' (and his pants too,
we should think).
. Dr Pandalai started his career at Loyola,
from where he took his bachelor's degree in
Maths. and Ph.ysics. He went on to the
graduate school at the Brooklyn Polytechnic
to do his ME in Aeronautics and A'pplied
MechanicE. He continued to work ll\ the
same department for his doctorate. He started teaching while he was studying for his
master's degree.
Dr Pandalai has an arsenal of opinions on
any topic you'd care to mention. Take t~e
hippies if you can stomach them. He admits
that the rebellion of youth against the established order may have some basis, but in his
own words. • not taking a bath is no way to
protest against anything.'
Passing on to something related, student
indiscipline (that oft~discussed and oft-judged
facet of life to-day), he expressed an opinion
with which hardly any sane person can
disagree. 4 Students should not indulge in
politics.' Then should we sit back and
allow the old fogeys round the place to
make a meSs of our future for us "I C Try to
trust your elders: after all they have your best
interests in mind. Perhaps you may not agree
with their idea of running things, but you can
only make matters worse by interfering:
'True enough. especially jf the powers that be
have as liberal and human an attitude as Dr.
Pandalai. < If University administrators
bothered to take student opinion into account
in framing syllabi and forming the rules and
regulations according to which students have
to live, there'd be far less unrest.'
,He had something to say about university
research, too. The fresh ideas and energy of
the younger generation could bring about
miraculous changes in the pace and content of
research - - provided the opportunities arc
forthcoming. (There are many who agree
with him: and perhaps go a step beyond

'1

meJ'e agreement. Credit tor orIginal research
work, for example, has a habit of distributing
itself with hardly any relevance to who did
the research. And young people, whose
position- on the academic scale leaves everything to be desired, are very often given the
run around when they come up for facilities
and equipment. Ed,)
Plump people have a reputation for being
jovial and inconsequential: you couldn't very
well apply that description to Dr. Pandalai.
He takes things seriously, so seriously that he
finds Indian student~ lacking in enthusiasm for
work. They are pampered and protected, he
feels. (He almost made it sound as though
kids are brought up 011 milk and honey, these
days). But he has a perfectly open mind
about other things. C It's silly,' he admits,
•. to force to a student to attend class if he is
capable of learning things by himself.' How*
ever,. he blamed parents for that. Parents
feel that their precious kids won't behave,
\Ultes$ there are rules enforcing attendance.
As an occasional interlude in the roar of
aero-enp:ine~,
lectUl'es and departmental
noises, Dr Pandalai likes listening to classical
music-Western or Indial'l. He flays that
once upon a time, he used to play games. He
was a member of his college foot-ball teamI I
was streamlined in those days.' (r!)
Imagine Dr. Pandalai wielding a tennis or
shuttle racquet t Well, he says he did, in the
good old days. naturally. We dare say he
did a good many other things in the irresponsible days of his youth, though. now they
may seem far fetched.
En route to the States, our man dropped
in at Shanghai (Guess why I). While he was
k.icking it up there the crew of the .liner saw
the opportunity (the golden opportunity) and
prepared to make themselves and the liner
scarCe. Dr Pandalai got wind of this infamous
plot and came dashing along to thwart their
evil designs. The natives rowed him across
to the outward-bound liner. The captain
dropped him a rope ladder on the theory
that given enough rope even Dr Pandalai
• •• He stat ted climbing. Th.e fish held
their breath, the captain held his breath, and
Dr Pandalai held his breath. After a few
minutes of this, they realized it wasn't getting
them anywhere. Dr Pandalai climbed some
more, Then he had a philosophical debate
with himself. He considered Jetting go of
the ladder and. . ,was it worth climbing

all the way to facing the rigors on board ~
'Besides, it was a long rOFe ladder. It' was a
close thing-the debate we mean. But after
a fearsome battle of logic, Dr Pandalai \Von a
famous victo.ry. He climbed over the railing
and said ( Boo I' to th.e captain who' conse-quently took to bed for the rest of the cruise.
Some people are still rejoicinK over that
famous v~ctory. If you've met Dr Pandalai
you'd understand why.

-eatllpastitnes

ENTERTAINMENT?
In keeping with IlTian traditionS', we have
an Inter-hostel Entertainment Competition
every year. This year ,was no exception.
The procedings were cempetitive enough, but.
could hardly be described as entertainment.,
The cnmpetitors were the different sections.
of the audience. They had come well pre·
pared with whistles, pipes, horns, d1'ums,
plates and sundry other noise-making apparatuS, and a splendid orchestration went' on_
from the rear of the OAT. Amid the:famous.
IlTian roar and the rhythmic hand.clapping:
which accompanied most of the items, were
calls of, 'We want Ramani 1', ;'Down with,
Rarnani l "and some far less complimentary
statements. (Strange, seeing that Ramani was
decfed to his post.) A remarkable exhibition
of rocketry by some venturesome sportsmen
(Aeros,. one presumes) made the excitable
audience roar with 1'edoubled vigour, thistime'in appreciation.
The audience were justified in their.dis-·
approval in that the general performance this
year was • simply lousy', But this was not It
little due to the fact that the performers.
couldn't be heard above the audience.

-Campasti7tt88.

The KGP Meet is round the
corner.
Are we prepared?
Are you prepared?

