6

CAMPASTIMES

[November .1.969
'Government of Mahatma' becomes a subconscious 'fait accompli'. Raja Rao achieves
in the novel it convincing inte\l:rutioll of the
charismatic Gandhian Image with the main
~lction.

Joseph Q.

Thiskundiah sat biting his fingernails.

but lle bit on purposefuUy.

It was nigh

he had to submit his doctoral

the~is

Of coursc, what worried Joseph Q. the most
was that the only words he had set down on
paper so far were, • Investigations on •• ,'
He knew that his research was supposed to
be on Geosynclic Enterocordinal DilJchal'gC
Simulated by Terminal Blastocysts in Quantum
Electrodynamic Reference Systems: 'but
then, what all those words meant was any~
body's guess. Joseph Q. looked desperately
-Qut of bis. window at the dark inviting night.
For a moment he considered the undeniable
1l.1lure of the late~late-late film show entertaining
the citizenry of VeJacheri. But only fot' a
Inoment. His unfinished thesis rebuked him
mutely. The very sight of it tUl'ned loose
at his vitals, myriads of crceping, crawling,
biting. stinging creatures. The sensation was
-on par with those generated by the vitriolic
hre\vs served in the mess ••
Joseph Q. sighed in vain fllr a fag. He
'Shifted uneasi1y in the cnair specially designed
by the considerate authorities for maximum
discomfort. Soon, he had consumed his
-stock of surplus nail. Which left him with
little to do but lay violent hands on his leaky
pen and proceed to assault sheets of paper,
:all virginal in their whiteness.

*'

...

*

Professors Mump and Measle were sm'PI·isod.
They had misjudged Joseph Q. altogether f
For instance, they had assumed that he
couldn't attempt anything even remotely
resembling research--yet here was a
complete thesis ostensibly substantiating his
.claim to the coveted degree t A bit skimpy
for a thesis, no doubt. but then, they don't
do things properly these days. The learned
pair put their heads together over the
surprising thesis.
They had to admit it. They tried very
Ilard but there wall no gainsaying the fact.
They were, in short" bamboozled, flummozed,
abSOlutely bowled. Understanding even two
consecutive sentences in tne object was an
endeavour beyond the modest cerebral
-equipment of Messrs. Mutnp & Measle.
But of course~ no professor can afford to
let himself he beat by a mere PiG at the
professional game of intellectual obscurantism.
They sent Joseph Q's thesis to Professor
Dr Sir Plasmodium Haironchest of the National Orthophysical Laboratory for special
reference. But they made the pardonable
mistake of prete1Jdi1Jg they understood it.
~
In a month's time~ the no\v~famous thesis
reached Doktor Ludvig L. Sauerkraut of
Downsala University with an attached note to
the effect that there were many curious facets
to the thesis which boasted of a large number
{)f undoubtedly original statements.
Doktor Ludvig L. Sauerkraut went into
~c&tasies over the intellectual triumph from
lndt'.tm. His normally short and upstanding
hair stood at attention and quivered with
pleasure as he read out excerpts from the
thesis before a convention of orthophysicists
from all over the country. He went so far
l1S to suggest that the (a~nvention. nominate
Joseph Q. for the Bonel Prize tn Orthophysics.

*

*

•

*

•

Signor Caramba Spaghetti of the Da Vin~i
University of Turino made his existence
felt in no uncertain manner. Joseph Q., he
(;harged, was a common thief. He. Signor
Caramba Spaghetti, had been working on the
yaracosmic problem for well over a decade
and Joseph Q. had just filched the fruits of
his Herculean labours. The Da Vinci faculty
insisted that Signor Caramba Spaghetti and
not Joseph Q. be nominated for the Prize.

.

...

.

Professor Ishiashi Sukiyaki of the Fuj i
Technical School began claim-jumping operations at about the same time. He knew a
good thing when he saw it.

•

•

011

.l'hcy tested awful,

midnight and next dar

to l l 1'ofessol's .Mu1l1p and IVleaslc.

Tim years later. tlla tool'ld WUl1limOlI'1y
acclaimed JOS6P'~ Q. as II glm,"flS: 'he !(laS
((warded tile B01lel Prize.

•

*

~

Sir Joseph Q. Thiskundiab. arose to addt'cs.<;
the distinguished gathering. • My research',
he began,' was, if my memory serves mc
right, 011 some jazz about light particles and
things. You know. when the cork goes pop.
the soda goes fizz 'and SQ on. Or was it
Coca-cola? Well, I forget exactly what went
what, hut you get the general idea. Since
then, I've learnt a great deal. What counts is
not so much the original research as the
process of making capital out of it. In my
(}fISe, the former was quite llon~e"istcnt, But
you morons couldn't be expected to have
guessed that .•.• because, you see, I am an
expert in the art of gassing. Or at least, 1
was. Now, it doesn't matter. Anything goes,
if I happen to say it. None of you.
have
the sense or the guts to "see through what
I'm saying•••• '
Well, you're right. Actually, he didn't usc
those very words. He phrased it far bettet'o
He used fourteen· letter words. He intoned
and declaimed. He was good. Everyone was
left in awe of llis genius. His address was
everything; brilliant, humorous, informative.
• . • and highly intellectual.
Professors Mump and Measle clapped their
hands raw and cheered their heads off.
They 'Wer8 proud. :Besides, Joseph Q. was
their boss now.

wm

----POO'I's.

THE GANDHIAN FACT
IN FICTION
by

DR A. V.

KRISHNA RAO

As Robert E. Spiller avers literature 1135
a 'relationship to social and intellectual
history, not as documentation, but as symbolic
illumination.' 11ldo~Anglian literature (more
notably fiction) created in the first half of the
century, is a brilliant projection of the image
of Gandhi, a legendary figure in his own
lifetime. Gandhi, we know, was a fact then,
but is a myth now in more than one sense.
Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan's painful reference
to our total rejection and repudiation of
Gandhi so soon after nis death, should reveal~
at least to the younger generation, the gaping
gulf between truth and pretence in our
national life. Be that as it may, the literary
exploitation of the Gandhian myth is artistically
most satisfying. A brief glimpse of the
Gandhiun Image through the medium of a
few artistic passages is perhaps a better birth~
day tribute to a forgotten father and messiah
than the popular rigmarole of not a few pious
platitudes.
Raja Rao is the nrst Indo-Anglian novelist
who has effectively exploited the Gandhian
Myth-translating reality into the poetry of
his novel, Kanthapura. The hero of the
novel, Moorthy Comes under the inescapable
Gandhian influence owing to the Mahatma's
mighty and God-beaming appearance in his
vision; the touch of Gandhi reveals to
MOOfthy • the sheathless being of the soul'.
One is reminded of the well-known Narendl'11
encounter with Sri Ramakrishna Parama·
harnsa. Moorthy, the Gandhi man now,
arranges Harikathas at the temple-the story
generally being 'Gandhi Purana: in which
Gandhi is depicted as the avatar of Siva.
The Mahatma is alsQ compared to Lord
Krishna and Shri Rama. • Gandhi-Bhajans'
are organised to rouse the dormant national
consciousness of the countrymen, and the

In Nagatajl111's C1lI'01liclcs of Kcdaram, how~
ever, Gandhi is represented, not as an avatar,
but as a benign and tactful. national leader
and a successful trouble-shaotel" (and pl'O~
bably vote·catcher too, to judge from what
that arch-politici~lll Vallchi does). In 1934was fought a decisive political battle all over
India by Congrcsb and Justice Parties. As
the undisputed leader of the national movemellt, Gandhi won it for the Congress, that
is to say, for the freedom-fighters. Nagarajan
and Raja Rao both deal with the N ationaJ
Movemen.t during the 1930's. The fOlmer
presents the Congress Organisation in action,
while the latter stresses the per\/(lsive force of
the Moving Spirit of the Congress. Obviously,
the Image of Gandhi is but the political
variant of natiol!alism.
Mulkraj Analld's UntOl.clwblc nal'ratcs the
experiences of a young untouchable ill a
naturalistic style. Having suffered the' most
miserable treatment. Bakha rambles ulong in
a melancholy mood and is moyed by the
deufellillg cries of 'Mahatm.l Gandlli Ki Jai',
All the. excitement and commotion 'portended
one thought and ouc thought alone in the surging crowd-Gandhi.' The flowing humanity
unmistakably suggests that.' Gandhi waS u
legend, a h'aditioll, an 0l'ac1c'>
Even so detached a novelist as R. K.
NlIrayan seems to have been awakened into a
consciousness of the llew national upsurge
(turing and after Gandhi's Salt Satyagraha of
1930. His Waiti1tg for the Maltatma is based
more on history than on legend. The most
vital difference between Katltilapw'a and Wait~
i118 for the Mahatma is in the maintenance of
the Gandhian Image in the same undistllrbed
focus throughout. The concentration and
rapid action of Kmlthapura are impressive,
while the want of those qualities in Waiti1tg
lor 'lite Manatma makes it rather otiose as a
political noyel.
In these, as well as in other novels that
cannot be mentioned here, Gandni appears as
the symbolism of the universal values of
life-Truth~ Non-violence and Freedom.
One cannot but agree with Arnold Toynbee
that Gandhi, the unyielding advocate of
SatyagyaTta~ is next only to Jesus Christ in
offering love for hatred. A century hence, as
Einstein so aptly said, people might not believe tllat such a man in flesh and blood
really walked upon this earth. Herel then,
was a Gandhi; when comes another?

LIMERICKS
Ram had Ii row with a critic
And let fly some powerful rhetoric:
He said, • Perhaps I croak
Like an adenoidal blo)te.
But a bull·rhino is a bit thick!
There was this baby·sittcr
Who hated her work and was bittcr.
When she got married
She certainly carried ;
Guess what! She issued a litter!

-N. KALAYANARAMAN.
There was once a Knight of the Garter,
Who sold his wife at a barter.
When asked, • What now?'
He said with a bow,
• Hell, I've still got the daughter I •
-SHAN?vWKli SHARMA

T. M.

MUKUNDAN.

&

