November 1969J

CAMPASTIMES

CARICATURE

SANYAL
Only an exceptionally lucky fdlow ou the Campus docli not
l'llow Sanyal---Munshi Mohan Sany,\l. Th.at's the fellow
wh.o's heard long before he's SCCll, though light tmvell> ulllpteen
times faster than sound.
III his first two years, wllat struck you first 011 seeing Sanyal
was his fist. There iSll't a contemporary of Sanyal who at one
time or another hasn't kissed his lUlUcldes. That's not sayjng that
Sanyal was always the bad guy: it could have been the lousy
hUllCh of friends he had,
They soon learnt not t{) argue with him.
When Sanyal says, • it's night,' it's quite unhealthy to insist on the
contrary, be the daylight ever so blinding, He may be loud and
una.llswcrablc. but there is morc thail a long tongue between his
cars--namely, his nose•

"OY'I~H"I,"n.l iII

...,,,.I--Crooo,,

On an average, Banyal spends two to threc hOllrs a day talkilIg
about Penny: which Oil simple calculation ~Idds up to over
120 days of constant contact over a period of foul' years, This is
about II% of Sanyal's time spent here in IIT. No wonder Pemly's
girl-friends are So jealous of our hero. This friendship is a two~way
business: Sanyal swipes apples, almonds, chocolat-es and sluff-and Penny gets the full benefit of Sallyal's decibel power.
to

1.)1'

~=;t;'mn ~ ~~

things like the h~l11me~ or the discus., ,But wo~'se is ,to foUow. His
prowess at rowtng gives anot~el' hl~lP t? ~!S almIghty ego: and
people have to ,go round pluc1ung 1115 tall feathers ,lest he should
soar above the Sight of men.

7:i~ --~ -if:!;>

At times he loafs onto the stage and brings his handsome face
(he thinks!) into thc glare of the floodlights. BangIa fishermen sing;
Dean Martin slngs ; and so does Mu~shi M,ohan Sanyal. God save
us if we try to describe what he sounds lIke, for Sanyal has very
definite opinions on the sweetness
his own voice, His subterranean rumblings have so overawed people that they have gont::

'-" -- Jjj

of

'1'he only thing that 8anya1 doesn't ,do for ki~I~s is play footbal}.
It's his lifc and soul. The trouble IS, sometimes he thmks he s
playing rugger and makes love to the .ball in a way a fQotbaU~l' is
not supposed to, People, when speakmg to 5anya1 (a rare thmg) ,
and finding h~s attention wandering, throw in words like ' half-bac:k '.
• jolly good kIck', and so on. Sanyal usually snaps to attention.
His dedication to the g~mc sin~e the first ~ear caUs for a word ,or
two of praise. The nlcest thing the InstItute could do for him
was to appOil\t h.im captain of the football team, Surprisingly
enough. he accomplishes more in other fields. He excels in nnything
involving violence 01' the exertion of vocal chords. "He has been
lcnown to gloat like a child over the distance to which he C'dll hurl

LIMBRleK
There WilS an old person from Troy
Who when young had been so very coy
That when shc got a pet
Sh.e inquired of the vet,
, Tell me, is it a girl or a boy?'

There was a young bard from RaciJle
Who in public sang ballads obscene.

The police, sad to say,
Came and took him away.
Poets should be heard and not seen.
There was n young man of Lahon~
Who ate pills both after and before.
Cried he ill dismay.
, In the family way?
But 1 took all precautions, I'm sure /'

-8.

l'()und giving him prizes.

He takcs part in group discussiolls and debates as an exercise
ill self-discipline. It bothers him COllsiderably to speak ill turn
and speak mtiolJa11y. Some people would be happier if he didn't
bother to speak at all, but they are wise, enough to keep their
opinions to thcmselves. Instead, they tell hIm what a great guy he
is, and evcryone is happy.
This may be Sanyal's caricature, but it eouid be our obituary
if our identities got about. So we {'cfuse to let am names disfigure
this marvellous piece of work, heh, heh !
-Try Guessing.

COMPETITION ENTRIES
There wa$ a young writer named Powell
Who hated the use of the vowel:
, 'm jst bl'ig frgl
'nd thllk 'ts 19i

I)RIZEWINNING

ENTRY

Who said,l'Il steep without mggtl

'1 '/tore was a youltg fellow called JtVood
~VllO d£d it whenever he could.
Now don't slyly grin
And contemplate Siu

I'm talking about gettittg IS-good) !
-So

But I have a fear,
That their heads areu't clear,
As they arc products of Piskunov and Scars.

-A.
3

SANKALthN.

-VSNKATESJ! MANNAs(.

There ,vas once a guy called J1lggU

PARA.MESHWARAN.

11'f has turned out engineers
In the past half-a-dozcn years;

Nw 'mjn th svng 'n my llvl ! '

When ~sked why not 'j'ug'
He replied with a shrug:
My mggu has too many buggu.

-v.

NbGARAjAN.

A bloke in the streets of Perth
Decided to mock at the Earth i
He sent off little screeches,
And down wellt his breeches,
To give the liveliest show in Perth.
-NAGRANI RAM SREWARAM'

PARAMESHWARAN.

Aclageously Speaking:
Mr. Broth told his son, • Here, look,
It is time to your place off you took.
Yow' family and mine
Add up to nine,
And too many Broths spoil the cook! '

-.-A.

SANKAMN.

