CAMPASTtMES

8

EDITORIAL
Educational Inaugural
The sight of freshly e~ecLed Gymkhar:a
representatives actually domg some worl;; ;s
enough to gladden any heart. They were" 111
fact, carting chairs from the O~T to t~e
Lest this statement leave the ImpresslOll that
the reps had suddenly t~.Lrn~d physica~ culture
enthusiasts, let us qualify It by, ad~hng. that
their inaugural function was III Imlnlllcnt
danger of being washed out. The clouds
looked sulky, as clouds arc apt to 100I.: when
crowds arc scheduled to converge ,0,11 thIY
OAT and someone made a snap deCISion to
shift the venue of the festivities. A stroke of
wisdom no doubt, but a trifle late in arrival.
Monkeys learn from experience, and evell
fish, but IITians need ;>omething more than
that. They need a Notice.

cr; r.

*
Magic Circles
• Which way to tIle sevCll4t(JQ.ded Dragoll of
Dragore that gum'ds the Sacred Sword of
Loralow ?' asked Prince Gallow pati61~tly .
'Tum right, thtm right, 11161' right, thM
right,' said the mall ill billS.
• But that woulcl talu~ me aroltlld 1.1t a sq'llaro
and bring me back to whe"c I am flOtU,' saiel
Gallow.
'It is 11UlCh more impressive tilat way for
everybody,' said the man ii' blue as lie wall~ed
away, clickillg his emeralds.
Impressive it may be, but hardly cOlwenicnt,
especially when onc's time and energy are
limited.
Time and again people pushing new ideas
llave discovered that most circles have a
tendency to end where they began, especially
bureaucratic circles.
Fresh ideas are too prccious to be left to
the tender mercies of officialdom. Sometimes the bright ones have the good sense to
make straigQ.t for the man on top and if the
inan on top happens to be anything like reasonable and understanding, thei.r ideas have a
fighting chance of survival. Otherwise' death
by strangulation' will be the ultimate fate of
any idea tangling with red tape.
Once in a while, a project gets going. ~ut
in their attempts to give it some standmg,
the wel1~meaning guiding spirits weigh it
down with committees :Illd meetings, subscription forms, membership forms I application
forms all ill triplicate, honorary secretaries,
treasurers, chairman and presidents. Itnpl'Cssive, very impressive. But so massively uscless! Haven't we yet got out of this childish
habit of congregating in large numbers for th~
express purpose of calling each other names
and adding to the national debt by scribbling
ucross reams of puper? People attend these
meetings eithc.l' because they have a se,cret
yearning for one of those great and glorIOUS
titles, 01' because they don't wallt to miss the
refreshments, The refreshments ure, perhaps,
the least wasteful feature of the whole phenomenOll---ut lcast someone has the benefit
of thost: calories. But when something like
90% of the expenses of any organisation is
chalked down to refreshmeIlts, we begin to
guess the true purpose of lhe organisation.
They could, with more honcsty and to better
purposc, call themselves' The I-logs Club' or
'The Gourmets' if they prefer the sound
of that.
The realisation that very often, the most
efficient organisation is a one-man organisation. is not very recent. History is full of
kings and dictators who held the wodd in
thrall: a Royal Committee couldn't possibly
have been very effective until all but one of
the members had wound up in the dungeons.

[November 1969

GAS

By the Way

I N AID OF LOU DER ECO
AND SHORTER WALKS

It does not scem very long since the term
began, but the examinations and the vacation
are already close at hand. At least, so it
appears to me : this is no doubt becausc, in
the old order of things, we started off in the
second week of July and worlccd for ,four
weeks after the Terminals, breaking up some
time in the middle of December. These four
weeks were n 591't of official picnic-the sternest conscience dOl:ls not jibe at taking things
casy just after exams, and a stern conscience
is not part of Ull IlTiun constitution anyway.
There was an unwritten truce between us and
the Academic Section to the effect that there
would be no periodicals botching up this
idyll. They used to get their kicks in Feb"
mary, with notices like • In partial modifica·
tion of the notice F/Aead/6S/413 it is notified
that the periodicals scheduled for February
l8t1l noW stand preponed to February lIth.
Classes to be held on the 18th which were
tral1sfened to the 14th will be held on the
18th while classes scheduled for the lIth will
be conducted on the 14th. Absence OIl the
14th will entail loss of attendance on both
IIth and 18th.' I remember we tried to get
them to hold off sending the grade cards home
until we got back from the hols, ~ut th~y
wouldn't agree. Something to do With their
getting into trouble with their Union.
Come back to the picnic, (1 refuse to apoIo"
gize for going off at a tangent: this column is
supposed to be-la series of digressions) it did
havc its uses. lIt used to provide a gradual
build-up for the Inter~IIT Meet. This used
to come off at the beginning of the hols, and
everybody could go on home f1'0111 there.
Last year, however, the early vacation brought
the Meet at its middle. The beginning of the
vacation had to be used as a training period.
In eHect the contingent missed the vacation.
I know they were given one wecl~ afterwards,
but that is not the SaIDe thing. It is bad
enough to stay back here and train when
everyone else is going home (it is chiefly the
lack of company that depresses), but coming
back late and finding a week's accumulation of
lectures, tutorials and labs to catch up on is
even worse. The sacrifice our sportsmen
were called upon to make was in my opinion
unfair. Some of them reluctantly decided
that they could 110t mal~c it, and 1 cannot
blame them. Let me make one thing clear,
though. Wherc we finish is immaterial, and
I am not saying that to cover up for past
failures. The effort is everything. When we
walk off thc field, we should feel that we did
as much as we damn well could. 7'!lat is the
true measure of participation.
1 wnture to say that no team with a few
key playcrs missing, and a lost vacation eyeing them balefully from limbo, could even
approach this feeling. As far as 1 can sec)
such half~heal'ted particjp~uion is a hollow
farce. It is the ultimate bctrayal of lhose
gallant few who do go in the face of evcry
ndversity. Speaking of adversity, our team
faced the bleak Kanpur winter with 110 lrack~
suits. Explanation: the Gymkhana was short
of funds. This is the sort of logic that would
provoke hoots of derision from an inebriated
baboon which, hud beon dropped on its head
at birth. If you can't afford Lo send 11 team,
you should at ieast refrain from sending an
assortment. 1~hat's just one example, We
need a proper gym and an instructor, 110t a
patch of sand looking like a miniature Cor~
pOl'ution playground. Yes, I know. The
Gymkhana is short of funds I If the situation
is so desperate,' we could miss one MeeL com~
pictcly, and us~ the money to give Ollr men
better facilities and a better challce next year.
Somebody once said, in effect, so what if
wc finished last in the Inter-lIT Meet '1 We
have the highest pass pCl'centagc in India.
He missed the point. YOtl don't 1tccd to say
• 50 what' jf you really tried. And as for the
pass percentage, with the advent of supple~
mentaries we can jolly well stop bragging
about it, It is time to throw out aU the hoary
old chestnuts which we have heard yeru' after
year, and thinl, afresh-before the event, for
o~ce, instead of after.

• Thanks, papa.'
, My pleasure, li'l gal.'
• I don't have to bawl my throat off, lIOW.'
• Feels good, ch ?'
• Jal>£: dad. Shee1' jazl>, but for the pain in
the neck.'
, Whaddya mean ? '
, ~rhe mouthpiece weighs something.'
• Want one stuck at the end of a stand ?' ,
• And leave me stuck at a spot. I ain't
crooning at the ChLT pa. You gOtl,L d,InCC
around when you teach Eco.'
• Lotsa space for it in the GhLT, what? '
, Morc'n that, it saves me a 10llg walk.'
• You mean, it feels safer with papa round
the corner.'
• Come off it, dad. I'm. quite capable of
looking aftel' myself.'
• But stiB, havi11g papa nearby gives you a
lot of comage, doesn't it ? •
• You're a louse, dad. Don't have to make
me feel such a cad, do you? '
-AAjoo.

(We suggest [h(lt studellis be provided with
earplrtgs if lecturers arc j)ravided with mil~es.)
In these enlightened days of massive democracy and committeeism, cffectiveness is a
thing of the past. Maybe we are kidding
ourselves and the creature never existed; but
,ve would likc to see 'for ourselves.

External Affairs-or Internal?
True, the Extcl'11al Affairs Committee is just
a Committee and as such, possessed of all the
inherent failings of committees as a genre.
But they have dug up a bone to chew.
Perhaps because they have no fixed respon~
sibilities thrust upon them, they are l,eon 011
taking up any odd item that comes up. Th~y
have been landed with the Science Fair tIus
yel\r and th~y seem to be makit1g something
of it,
But this is not enough to sap all their
energies. 'rhe result is that they go round
poking theil" noses into affairs ill which no
sane committee would interfere.
They have a vast and quite undcfined field
to investigate-and have come up with s:u,~
pdsing and (to some) rather embarass1l1~
facts. Their suggestions smack so much of
common sense that people up there arc still
gasping for breath. Keep up the good work,
EAC, and don't let committee ism get you
down too much. We rather fancy the theory
that the EAC is a Committee only in name
and that there are actually human beings
camouflaged in it, but we would rathcr not
elaborate 011 this point.
«0

..,

...

Campastilnes and Satyru8 U'fianus
Undoubtedly, Cumpastimes docs manage to

see the light of day noW all~l then with ~l!, of
twenty pages round the "flust, The II! mil
needn't, however, congratulate himself on this
remarkable (!) achievement. Those twenty
pages could have been a lot livelier and a
great deal more interesting to him if he had
applied his wits to malting them so. Let him
turn these points oV'er in his mind:
(i) he c(m do better than merely sit and
pass comments on anything thut doesn't meet
his approval;
(ii) it is ridiculous to have entire issues
~vritten by the Committee;
,
(iii) he would enjoy seeing the fruits of hIS
intellectlLallabours in print;
(iv) ergo, he should write for Campaslimesl
If this elicits anything mote than a cynical
snickcl' from Satyrus IITianus, let us rejoice
und oHer thanksgiving. At long last, logic is
beginning to m~\ke an impression on the
creature. If it doesn't, things aren't changed
very much. We have grown inured to the
business of trying to inform and entertain
him in spite of himself.

CAlYIPASTIMES
wishes
£ts
readers the best of luck itt the exams.

S.

PARAMESHWARAN.

