CAMPASTIMES

10

[November' - 1969'

THE VIPS ARE COMING • • •
TDE VIPS ARE {OMING • • •
It all started with the morons up there in
the Gymkhana who decided wisely that they
should invite some scientific bloke Or the
other to inaugurate the neW Gymkhana
building. A fresher bloke who got in accidentally, chose to disagree, but he was
mouted out by the more articulate members
who considered him precocious (one has to
give him that much credit). and impertinent.
The result was that this corny proposal was
actually agreed upon. The fresher bloke
thought longingly of the day when he, as a
big shot, would brow-beat young morons into
silence.
One thing has invariably surprised atl the
chief-guests at Institute functions. They find
it rather easy to lean back in the luxurious upholstery of theit limousines and say, • Man,
they really live it up here I' A Mayor was
rumoured to have remarked. 'This joint has a
nursery huge enough to make Madras the
city beautiful: Maybe he was given to using
bad metaphors, or perhaps he lived in
fantasies. Let us come back to the Gymkhana chaps. It so happened that they wanted keep up the reputation of the Institute in
euch matters, and there developed a situation
which would easily have beaten Roman orgies
of the worst kind. Visions of sumptuous food
floated before the corpulent members. They
were rather pleased.
The General Secretary caUed for an exclusive meeting of the various secretaries to
draw up the guest list. Of course they would
have the usual horde of VIPs, both from the
Institute and outside. At this point, a rather
ebullient lady fcom Sarayu. much impressed
by all this jazz, chirped in, • Mah mommy t ••
C Of course, your mommy,' said the hypersensitive Entertainment Sec. • Sure. Sllre,'
'Volunteered the gallant knights. Someone
looked in the direction of the fresher and
chuckled (My, he is quite diplomatic now~a­
days).
OAT. the largest amphitheatre in India,
was chosen as the venue. for obvious reasons,
in spite of the fact that the newly-erected
building was half-a-mile away. Here was an
opportunity to flaunt our technological progress I The following complicated procedure
Was formulated. It was the usual press-abutton-oll-the-stage, the-tape-gets-cut routine.
C Dr
Claudius Thamboosami will be impresred t' So everyone thought. The engineering unit was set upon the poor amphitheatre
a few days before D-day. A stage which
looked somewhat like a cross between a lotus
and a trianlge was mounted, and painted electric piJlk; a virulent yellow bacltdrop in velvet
was just the thing. Flowet-pots were brought
from the well-camouflaged nursery behind
OAT. They were hung from all manner of
odd places-to render the place beautiful.
A bee would have simply died of fatigue saying, • Hit rose', • Hiya, Chrysanthemum' and
things. The railing pipes were jazzed up
with scarlet paint. This was to extract interesting comments from those who leaned on
those pipes for years to come. • Bring along
your kids' must have been in the invitation.
Bulbs were to flash and &ighs change, filling
eight-year-old&' mind& with wonder. • Who
gives the orders to these horrors ?' was the
Big Question. The IlTian stared.
Dr Claudius Yoohoo Thamboosami, in true
scientific tradition, would rather skip the dinner bit. So it was decided to have an informal heavy tea. Sealed tenders were not invited
from the aU too numerous canteens in the Institute. The matter was left to the gluttons
and gastronomes of the Gymkhana. The
public address system was given special attention in view of its notorious inefficiency.

Strict instructions were given to play , Come
September' and not the same old 'Limboh
rock' again. There were only a few days left.
The Gen. Sec. borrowed a Zodiac from his
neighbour i persons were rounded up to sing
Salzatlab/zavatlm ; invitation cards were sent t(}
everyone including someone's mommy. The
UTian cursed.
It was about 3-30 in the evening. Dr
Claudius T, arrived safe and sound and was
ushered up to the Conference Room. The
informal heavy tea went right on schedule.
All would have been okay had not the Gen.
Sec. hogged well but not too wisely: he had
to leave in a hurry. He caught hoM of our
Ed and after a formal introduction, said,
• I'm SU1'e you would like to air your ideas on
science. Have an interview!' and left the
two for a tete-a-tet8. Dl' Claudius T. smiled
gratefully :lJ1d started to say, • Thomas Alva
Edison ••• ' when he was stopped by the pw;zled look on the Ed's face who, incidentally.
was choking on his seventh laddu.
'( Cough) Just one sec. sir, cough gulp I),
excuse me, sir, I'll go get the tape-recorder:
said he and hurried off into the corridor, cursing away to himself. He had had more than
enough of interviews. The Social Secretary
came in at the right time: obviously he was
waiting for it. ~ He'll be back in a jiffy,' he
reassured the C. G. (Where else would he get
material for his rag I) Would you like some
more tea?' 'Yes, please,' said Dr Claudius
T., charmed by this polite young gentleman.
The Ed Crawled back wondering who was
going to do the write-up.
• As I was saying. Edison did not have any
VTVM or duodenum but stilt, he has done
more to electrical engineering and obstetrics
than Casanova. • • • , blah blah •••• .' The
Ed had taken the precaution of stuffing his
ears with cotton wool; he sure was a veteran.
The interview ended in a short time anyway,
because Dr Thamboosami was scheduled to
visit the Workshops at 4.30 P.M.

blushed. The· rows of dopes stared at the
great man and cursed. Imagine keeping them
back till 5 P. M. to be inspected by this
zoological specimen 1
Dr Claudius. did not stop with that. He
went into the l\1achille Shop and looked at the
ST34 Sliding Arbor Universal Screw-cutting
Lathe as if it ,vas his incubator. On-lookers.
were puzzled by this extraordinary interest.
Aud all those gadgets in the Electrical Shop I
• Man, this Soupee is a killer I' he tlmug}tt
(he was Yank-oriented).
Now that that ordeal was over, he was.
brought to the OAT. By this time, the
Gymkhana people were til'ed. The hardships
involved in conducting such a function were
u,nexpected. The Gen. Sec. and Chief
Guest were hurrying down the inclined path
when out-stepped a professor.
'Claudius, old egg 1 How come you call
yourself Thamboosami these days? Stinker
wasn't good enough for you, ell ? The Gen.
Sec. tried to look at the other -way. Dc
C1audius '1'. responded enthusiastically,
• Harry Pattabhiramall 1 What a surprise t
How'te you, o{d cog i Imagine seeing you in
a lovely place like this I' and 011 they went
leaving frustrated IITians to yell their guts
out. People began to voice their demands
more vociferously, as is usual. Eyebrows
shot up. The pOOl' G. Sec. got jittery.
• Er ••.• shall we proceed ?' he asked politely, ignoring the caustic glances of Dr Harry
P., mainly because he was not in the same
department.
Soon they took their seats on the stage.
I Taste of Honey' was stopped and one saw
the same old mugs singing • Q,n Shanti Slza1&ti'
to an unpacifiable crowd. The Gen. Sec.
read a welcome speech, punctuated by boos
from his adversaries. At Jast the great and
glorious building was opened. Now Dr
Claudius T. decided to radiate knowledge.
• I am very happy to open your new threestorey building. This is sign of metabolic.

The Central Workshops were a sight I
What with all the sermOns at the entrance, at
the Betriebsleiter's, at the Supdt's Office, at
the water cooler and the toilet, and what with
objects like • silent sentinels' standing guard
against pba'lor miscl'eaants I Dr Claudius T
was impressod. The Carpentry Shop was just
impeccable-no sawdust. He was moved.
Young boys at the age of sixteen working so
hard I He went into the Fitting Shop and
Was given a load of drivel regarding the working of various machines. He entered the
place where the freshers were pretending to
work. As befits a man of science, he looked
benevolently at a mug. The mug actually

activity, of growth: of building, to be precise..
Institute Gymkhanas, are very conducive to
the development of science.' At this very
instant something happened at the announcer's pit. The public address system was
cut off leaving Dr Claudius whispering to the
mike. The circumstances under wfiich the
bewildered P.A:man did this can be describ ..,
ed as anything from unusual to demanding.
It happened that the father of one Arul
Gowda had come to see him and made like:
he was itching to dive into the reunion scene.
The P.A. man, a compassionate being•.

I

(Col~ti1med otl

p. 13; Col. 3)

