November 1969]

11

CAMP ASTIMES

sportfolio

It's a regular war with the authorities to
obtain permission for participation in intervarsity tournaments. The disputes could
have been settled before the tickets were
bought. It can only be hoped that other
teams are not refused permission to enter
inter-varsity tournaments because of this
incident.

Inter-varsity Tournaments:
The Institute expects a team to become at
least the zonal champions to earn the right to
enter the inter-varsity. A couple of our
teams nearly made the grade. Given diffe·
rent conditions tl:\.ey could do better. Should
the Gymkhana grudge the teams a chance to
prove their worth? Performance at the inter
varsity may not be very encouraging but the
experience will stand the teams in good
stead.
The skating team's I victory • at Simla has
been loudly acclaimed for quite some time.
A vast amount of money was spent in sending
a handful of competitors for the skating meet
in which we did well-naturally. There were
only four teams competing I I The Gymkhana cannot go about comparing their perM
formance with that of-say, the hockey team.
In fact, the Institute skating team came first
in a meet held here-they were th.e only
people on the rink.
It's generally felt ill sports circles that the
skating club is g~tting undue attention. The
equipment provided to them is top class, yet
a great fuss is being made about the lack of
some items, which are being speedily bought.
Does this speak of the efficiency of the secretary of the skating club? Or does the Ins·
titute somehow f~el responsible for the birth of
a freak-club ( We don't grudge the skating
club anything; only let's retain some sense of
proportion when we brag.
M

Cricket:
The Cricket ground at the stadium is a
battlefield for the fielder. Last year. there
was an additional hazard-the fielder had to
cope with practice nets. through which the
ball could pass but he could not. The nets
have been removed to a new spot: God help
those who are playing there-it's a death
trap I
The authorities (Lo!"' bless 'em J) have at
last realised the need for institute caps-as
was to be expected, supplied to the team after
the fixtures had been completed. May he
they expect the caps to be worn to class!

On Spectators:
The inter-hostel matches have brought these
people into focus. The spectators have every
right to cheer, jeer and cat call. There
may be times when the acts of fielders seem
unsporting. But there is nothing unsporting
about getting a batsman out. If the batsman
walks out of his crease before the ball is dead,
he can be run out. The rules say that.
Shouting obscenities doesn't change the fact.
And keeping up a steady stream of abuse to
unnerve the fielders isn't fair. Not cricI~et.
The play may have seemed 'ungentlemanly'
but then, perhaps, we could discard rules,

Rescued from
the W. P. B.
Do not throwaway that for which you See
no immediate use. That's the reason why
some people collect stamps and others buy
waste-paper baskets. The net result being
that guys like me have an easy way out when
asked to write articles.
Easy way out? ? ?
WeI! old horse, the fact is that most of this
article was written by other chaps-chaps
who got out of their beds in a hurry and
proceeded to scribble for this rag-the aforementioned stuff being just as hastily dispatch
ed, via the Ed. to the WPB. From which
receptacle yours truly fished them out and
went on to (ahem l) write an article.
You know, now and then I don't quite
see eye to eye with the Ed. For one thing, I .
don't mind lukewarm jokes, not even chest.
nuts. Hence my first exhibit shall be awell, satirical piece written with a truly
M

:-:J/

umpires and the rest of the paraphernalia, to
make the game gentlemanly.
Football :
The football team has been fairly successful in recent years. More than ~hat they have
earned a reputation for being gentlemen on
the field. A referee has been heard saying
that our team was the only one that took a
decision without complaining. But this image
has been destroyed by a lot of petty scrapping
just before the inter-varsity.
ChiIIar spent considerable energy and time
to see that our team was allowed to participate.
The tickets for the trip were bought and
everybody was wishing everybody else luck.
So far so good. The Captain suddenly
announced th.at he could not make the trip.
A regatta was more important. The team
faced with the problem of choosing a • convenient captain' temporarily decided on one
of the senior players. Then the • power politics' started. On the eve of the team's departure, personal feelings came to the surface
and Chillar's efforts were in vain-the team
stayed behind! Another version of the story
goes like this: Patel was injured, Ganguli
wa$. injured, Anupam couldn't come. So
what was the point in going ?
Joycean eye for detail, Journey by lIT Bus'
Last Saturday I went on a journey by lIT
bus. I am stilI alive, heh, heh !
On that day there was a large crowd standing near Jamuna at 12-35 p.m. Nobody had
the decency to tell me that they were all waiting for the bus. The bus was scheduled to
arrive at 12-45 p.m., but as usual was half
hour late, 50 to say it arrived at I-IS p.m.
Immediately there was an ocean of humanity
moving towards the bus. I was not with
them. I was under them.
Somehow or the other I got into the bus
and at once began to feel that I was in Kotwal
Chawdi fish market-not that I think I am a
fish, but the smell, you see. But then, we
were packed like sardines I Somebody was
stamping on my new Sandak shoes and one
Sal'darji was breathing down my neck. He was
a hairy fellow and it was just past noontime.
In the meanwhile, not only had somebody
picked my pocket but also the conductor was
asking me for tickets. This was very funny

Ice - CREAMs

TOUCI-IE I

.

-~ ------~------~~~

-RAMGOPAL SHARMA.

EDWIN'S HABIT:
He has done it once again.
In the State Shuttle
Badminton Championships,
Edwin Srinivasan won the Singles title.
Capt. Sheopuri and Edwin won the Doubles.
Good for them.
and I will tell you why. As I told him, ' You
have made ore mistake. It is I who should be
asking you for ticket and not me you yar 1 II •
The second effort is somewhat more
humorous and is by (I presume) a A.
Hitchcock fan.
, A Ghost Story I .
It was a dark, gloomy, moonless night. It
was raining cats and dogs and water. Every
now and then lightning streaked across the
sky and was followed by THUNDER.
A man was sitting in a four-legged armchair
beside a flickering candle in a haunted house
reading a book on ghosts. Suddenly, there
was a knock on the door I The man got up,
and with trembling hands unbarred, unchained'
and unlocked the door. There was yet Q11Ot1ler
ma,t standing outside!
The stranger came in. He wore black
gloves, a black hat and his face was completely enveloped in a muffler. He then spoke in a
deep, unnatural voice, as if from the bottom
of a well.
(Co~ztd.

c:.ot<.~S

~

~
U

lJl

:z
3

4:

(J(

Q.

A Tragedyl
A duel between Ramon and Moshe,
Ended when Moshe said, • Touche! '
As for poor Ramon,
People said, • Amen,
-A. SANKARAN.
And Requiescat in Pace I '

c

4NbY

FANTAS

SWEETS

on p.

lZ

col. I)

,oFFe'e

