12

CAMPASTIMES
-~-------'---'-

From Here and There
Recently we had repeated power failures on
several evenings ilin the hostels, becam.e some
fault developed at the distribution center.
Apart from this major series, power failure is
a periodic process with some of the hostels
and a daily affair in my wing in Kaveri.
Those who are in the habit of relaxing for a
couple of hours over a cup of steaming coffee,
prepared using an electrical applianct', during
those peak hours when others look busy
reading some serious stuff, will understand
the reasons for it.
Honestly, whenever the power is off, it is an
occasic.n which IITians enjoy '{ery much. It
helps them bring out their hidden talents,
abd sometimes in getting a periodical postponed. In the absence of power, distance
shrinks and you can hear the drums of
Mandaltini and the vocal chords of Ganga at
distances as far as Kaved and Krishna.
Sometimes one can even hear a sort of
, bhajan' Or a similar group item put up by
some of the hostels, obviously dedicated to
God for a speedy recovery of our power
system from this'dreadful disease.

•

Rescued-(Continued from p. XI)
, Do you know who I am ? '
The original man1 replied in a quavering
voice, 'No I '
It was a moment of sheer and naked terror.
To the sound of clanking chains, the
stranger took off his hat. He had no HEASad, isn't it?
Well, here's a budding Stephen Leacock to
continue the story, The Memoirs of Inspector MuUangi '.
Inspector Mullangi and I threw ourselves at
the door,
And landed in a heap on the floorSomeone had forg{)tten to lock the door •.
With a twirl of his fingers, M sheathed hlS

Colt. 45-

It had fallen out when we went for the
dive.
We stood up. We looked around. (No,

we were not searching for Grandma's glasses.)
I notice nothing unusual-except of course,
the body on the floor. It looked kind a
queer-So would you if you were minus n
head. Inspector Mullangi thought it out in a
trict'.
, There's been a homicide' he announced,
unwrapping a fresh packet of Wrigley's.
1 was not taken in-after all, he cotlld be
wrong, being only a cop.
e Elementary, my dear W,' he explained.
, Notice the complete absence of ways and
means for a suicide-no pen-knives, no
scissors, not even a guillotine-'
AU right, all right, you've had enough.
Not being a blood bank, I've got a limited
supply of the red fluid and with the Ed
already after it I don't want you bulls too in
the game.
-RAT.

•

•

Earthly creatures as we are, we can never
escape human problems. Only their magni~
tude differs from person to persoD. For
example, the space scientists working abroad
have a problem. They want to study the
possibilities of life existing on Mars. IITians
have a similar problem. It is this: can life
exist in IIT and, if so, for how long?
Ask any fresher what he feels about
life in our campus. He will be all praise
for it. • Well Sir, I love this campus and its
scenic beauty. The grass looks green and the
sky looks blue. The grub in the hostels is
excellent. The Istaff members are nice and
quite the mixing type. We had a get-together
recently with staff and senior students and
they all asked us not to be hesitant in
approaching them for any kind of help •• .'.
But the same fresher will slowly understand
that things here are not always what they
appear to be. He may not notice any appre~
ciable change in -the colour of the grass or sky
as the years roll by. but he definitely will feel,
for instance, that the teachers here have not
formed a correct opinion about his abilities,
that his opinion of them would insult any
assembly of hoofed animals, and that the ~rub
in the hostels is not meant for human bemgs.
You ask for his opinion about this campus
again just before he leaves this place. C Ayyo
lVIuruga 1 Given the choice between lIT and
the Andamans, I would prefer the latter where
l can hope to get at least some peace of
mind if not a degree in Engineering.'
Judging from this point of view one feels
that life can barely exist in IIT ...• but not
beyond 5 years.

C. S.

SASTRI.

announced it over the mike, leaving the audience
shaking; some with fury, some with laughter.
But 01' Claudius could do better than that.
With a sheepish smile he resumed, f As I was
saying Gymkhanas help the growth of science
and vice 'Versa. Thank you' • He simply
loved the phrase. It took some time for the
morons to figure it out.
There was hardly a soul left when the vote
of thanks was proposed. The whole bunch
of Gymkhana chaps escorted Dr. Claudius T.
to the car and the professor, his old pal, did
not forget to say' Cheerio, Stinker I '
A few minutes later . • • . • • . . •..
All IITians (except those in the Gymkhana)
moaned, ' • Egad, what a waste I' The General
Secretary thought of the various functions of
the year that were yet to be conducted and
let out an Ugh. But Dr. Claudius Thamboo~
sami, leaning back in the comfortable uphols~
tery of his Car thought aloud, • Man, they
sure do live it up out here. But what a bunch
of nitwits I '

The hungry ones

-N. KALYANARAMAN.

