CAlVIPASTIMES

14

lilffiIB llN§U1Q)IB §li~~¥
~lIJ~ MiRW ~1il~JE
Kake hails from the top of Ganga Hostel
when he does any hailing i at other times he
speaks in a dreamy inaudible whisper.
Long ago, long before Kake ever met
Campastimes. he was involved in a hectic love
affair with an object called the Blue MoolJ
Digest, his school magazine. In other words,
he edited it, and this seems to have become
a habit. Even as a freshe~ he got mixed up
with Campastimes, and many bouncing issues
have come forth frOIll this fruitful union.

[November 1969

~IP

The Return of
the Editorial
One Man's Meat

direction. He stopped and stood aside to let
the other pass, and the other bloke did the
same. Kake spoke to the bloke, and a meny
conversation ensued. After a few minutes,
Rake's pals came back and dragged him away
from the mirror. He doesn't remember the
incident, natu.rally, Ask him if he smokes,
and he'll probably say, "Do I ? I'll ask Ravi
and let you know."
The Nee saw a lot of Kake in various
posts. but of late, they seem to have warned

~

r.r:-~

w__ _

~.l'i•• ~_ ..

/{W~

~~
/ ~I./"b

-

/,I

\If. :r::;(~

I,

J..)- r I '~.:..-.-;'\

I,r ;
•

-Kif;"".

1£ you, see a guy chasing a snake or a snake
chasing a guy across the Campus, you can
rest assured one of them is Kake. He simply
bubbles over with enthusiasm at the sight of
the great outdoors, and playing tag with
snakes in his harmless way of showing his
exuberance. .Onetime Secretary of the Outdoor Club, and survivor of many an outing
into the wilds, he'd have a lot of interesting
experiences to relate, if only he could l'emembel' them. One cop still remembers the
whacking big knife Kake pulled out when
asked to explain why he was loating round
the countryside in the dead of night. Rake
thought the cop might be interested in rusty
scout knives, and the cop thought he was ill
for some major surgel'Y.

Lc!-t

'~Y)

I \

\

<tNOle. O"FICEJl.,

him oft. After aU, they have standards to
maintain, and with Kake round the place the
raw recruits may get ideas. Having taken all
the trouble of ~ersuading Major Jaffery that
he had done hIS duty, the Nee weren't in
any mood to let Kake undo the good work.

As befits an A~ro bloke about to be launched into the great wide spaces, he evinces
great interest In aU matters aeronautical. If
Rake had his way. we'd be havlllg chickellpowered aircraft flapping all over the Campus.
r.l'I"

Kake-Mountaineer

Kake has a phenomenally weak memory.
As an. illustration, we can cite the remarkable
encounter he had when he went to see a movie
with a couple of pals. The trio was stomping
up the staircase to the balcony when Kake
saw a smart..:.bloke stomping in the opposite

I'..At<-E- iSST PIJ..O'T
Kake used to fool around with. a raft 011 the
lake near the temple. He gave up all na"al
ambitions after swallowing half the lake when
his gallant vessel capsized.

Kake-Ancient Mariner

Rake-Conversationalist

Kake's stock is high among the staff: he is
considered capable and dependable. And as
for student opinion, here it is, fOT all its cyni~
cism : " He's the least unpopular guy round
the place, yar."
K. KALYANARAMAN, JR.

. The sight of a cpw puts a hungry glint
Into some eyes. Dinner once adorned with
hoofs~ ~orns and tail may be extraordinarily
~ppetlS1l1g. ,but then, athel' people object to
Its translation from the open field to the
cooking pot: it gives them a funny feeling in
the ~.i~dle. Besides, it offends their religious
convictions.' Apply your knives and forks to
any othel' meat, they say, but leave the holy
cow alone. This merely serves to make the
prospective consumers of beefsteaks extra
keen on giving a high and honoured position
on the menu to choice representatives of the
?ovine species. The laws of psychology work
in wondrous ways.
The Same problem has touched off controversies on Ii national scale. Leaders have
eXl?r~ssed varied opinions on this topic; their
OPI111011S cannot be expected to be stable
considering the effects of time and audience:
In any case, one look at the national political
scene Sel":ves to convince any sane indhridual
that thought and "sense rarely intrude on the
colourful buffoonery at the Capital and elsewhere: and into the already surrealistic
picture drop militant sadhus in" various states
of undress, fasting gurus, and crowds on the
rampage,
However~ we are still a Secular State, whatever that may signify. We recognize the
right of every individual to follow whatever
religion he fancies: we allow him freedom to
practise it in whatever way his beliefs dictate:
so long as it doesn't interfere with other
people's beliefs and rights. At least we do
in theory.
The fine point is this: does your neighbour
interfere with your religion by finding one
more use for the cow?
Some avoid the point by saying that the
carnivorous neig~bour can sink his teeth into
anything he desires so long as he does it out
of sight and far away from their mess.
Magnanimous, no doubt, but for all the good
this considerate concession is, it might be a
• welcome' sign on a beefsteak up there on
the Moon. If this show of tolerance is to
'have any significance, it 1s a question of here
and now.
And some have no objections to anything
but the idea of using plates that were onCe
defiled by the touch of beef • . . (but aren't
cows /laly f). Plates can be washed, even
sterilized--this possibility, however is looked upon as a mere subterfuge, not worthy of
the status of a counter to the objection.
This interpretation of the edicts of Hinduism
smacks of the onceHcurrent tenet of untouchability. Now, of course, a self~styled progressive would indignantly repudiate any
suggestion that he subscribes to the thoory,
The hungry ones do not like being denied.
They seek to meet what they consider un~
reasonab1eness with a show of equal un~
reasonableness: with amusing results in
instances. They inveJ"l.t on-the-spur-of-themoment religions with strange injunctions as
to what others shouldn't eat-like curd rice
or Tasam. With tongue-in-cheek religiQus
fervour, they object to the ~ unholy' food
consumed in the· mess, and seek to remove a
a large number· of hitherto harmless items
from the vegetarian mel1U. They are as
much within their rights in doing this, they
claim, as the conscientious objectors on the
other side of the fence.
Phoney religions aside, there are a few
genuine religions like Islam and Jainism which
have definite rules on the subject. If beef is
out, so is pork or any other type of meat.
This is the wide and easy path to mad~
ness---not to mention starvation in the
midst of plenty, The food served in the
mess isn't so satisfying that we can afford to
dispense with major items on the menu. If it
is a question of outdoing one another in objecting, We might as well pack up and go home.
We aren't likely to survive out here for long.
As it stands now, the cows in lIT can rest
in peace, Respe.ct for the genuine religious
sentiments of a number of people has neces~
sitated the maintenance of the taboo on beef.
But that does not remove the hungry glint
in some eyes.

Edited by P. C. Venkatachelam, Published by Prof, S. Sampath and Printed by C. E. Roshy at the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

