\101. VII, No.4

On the twenty~secQnd day of March, 1969,
a gaudy rose~pink light atop the projector
room at the OAT blinked • INSTITUTE
DAY'. Nothing much for the general lot,
but a great day for the top notchers.
Sri H. V. R. Iengar was the chief guest.
Dr N. Klein, President, Gymkhana,
welcomed the gathering with his usual
sparkles of polished wit. The mote light~
hearted were disappointed to find that he
had cut down' on humour in favour of
·suggestions for. making the sfrvices of the
Gymkhana more easily a"ailable.
K. S. Loganathan, ·the General Secretary
of th.e Gymkhana, reported the activities of
this ear focussing on certain major changes
in the constitution of the Gymkhana and his
recommendativns for the coming years.
Dr Ramachandran, Director, spoke in
detail of all activities and achievements of
the Institute. One could 'almost detect a
aense of pride in him as he ~laborated on the
various new courses introduced t and the
plans for the future. ~
In his address, the Chief Guest optimistically
referred to the progress our country had made
since independence. He warned against our
being influenced by the bad new'S in the
newspapers i for after a11 the press is interested
mOrc in fOCUSSing on our failures than in
,
glorifying OUt success,
The prize distribution, and then a vote of
thanks by Dr Director Prof Sampath, was
folJowed by a variety entertainment.

-Ca111pastimes.
AERONAUTICAL SOC!E.TY OF INDIA
MEETS AT ,.1M
N£W At:R.O 8LOCK INAUGURATeD
lIT Madras played host to the Aeronautical
Society of India during their 21st Annual
General Meeting held on the 4th and 5th
of April. Scores of delegates from all over
the country -and even abroad took part and
-presented papers.
At the InauguraL function of the Meeting 011
the 4th, when His Excellency Sardar UjjaI
Singh was the chief guest. Sri H. V. R. Iengar
formally declared the Aeronautical Engineering-Block open.
The Nilakantan Memorial Lecture was
deli"ered by Dr Harold Liebowitz, Dean,
School of Bngg•• Washington.
Among the features of the 2~day Meet were
Exhibitions from rAF Tambaram, Thumbs,
Atomic Ellergy Commission and BAC; Film
shows by courtesy of usrs and :SAC;
'tItage show; and a re~union dinner.
Prof Pandalai, Head of Aero and App Mech
dept., thanks all who helped in the Meet.
-Catnpastimes.

liT Madras, Summer, 1969

25 P.

P',otO$: Kubendl'a1l

Above left: Sri H. V. R. Iengar addresses the gathering. -Seated are: K. S. Loganothan, Prof Salllpath,
Pruf Dr Ramachandran, Prof Dr Klein, Prof C. V. Sethunathan.
Above rig/It: Tbe Chief Guest releases the Gymkhana Brochure.

Rs. 25 LAKH BUILDING POR CHEMISTRY
To be ready in 18 months
The foundation-stone of the new Chemistry :Block was laid by Shri H. V. R. lengar
at a colourful function held on the 20th March at 12.30 p.m.
Despite thc rather inconveni.ent time, close
on Sao guests including many from outside
the institute were present. Sri H. V. R.
Iengar, in his speech, referred to the need for
establishment of closer liaison between industry
and academic institutions like IITM which,
he said, would go a long way in making IITM
a centre of excellence and usefulness.
Based on the plans originally drawn by Dr
Robert Kerber of Technical University, Berlin,
and by Dr M. V. C. Sastri, Head of Chemistry

Department, 'the new block will be three~
storeyed with two wings of 100 ft. and 3.70 (t.
length. The shortet· wing, for measurements,
will be air-conditioned.
According to Dr Sastri, the building, when
completed, will be one of the finest laboratories
anywhere in the world and undoubtedly the
most modern chemical laboratory in India,
with facilities for the working of 500 undergraduates, So to 60 PG's, and about 70 Ph.D.
registrants and other research workers.

(see also page

20)

IITians Discuss the Student U.nrest
Problems in India and Germany
with V'isiting German Professors
Three professors from the Technical Universities itl Germa,ty, Dr Ing. W. Panklli1l,
Dr Ing. R. Brauer and D1' Ittg. J. Ruge, were here for a few weeks in. Feb1'UIJ3Y. Havi1'1f beett
;,z the middle of rhe welter of cOllfusion lil Germany lost summer,1 they 'l.JJiSMd to 1tleet 1':1- few sltlll81zt
represet~tativ8S from the t'ustt'tttte to excka-nge viefJJs on a. common problem.
The discussion opened with a spotlight on
Almost everyone
agreed that the language problem in India
\Vas a genuine one but the approach made
by the government to solve it was wrong.
We all agreed that for national integration a
link language is essential and very soon
international integration would demand a
language common to all the people of this
world. (It is with such foresight: that the
Germans have introduced the English lan~uage
as a compulsory subject in theh: schools).
In India today S~7% people speak English,

the language problem.

35% speak Hindi and the rest odd 60% speak
a variety of the 13 remaining languages.
The government at the centre, strpngly in~
fluenced by the Hindi speaking sect, tnought
it appropriate to establish Hindi as the
national language. This obviously came as a
shock to the non-Hindi speaking Indians,
particularly people of science all over the
country; Translation of scientific knowledge
into a language like Hindi, would indeed
amount to the ,creation of a totally new
(colltintlsd 01l page 12, col. 3)

