2

CAMPASTIMES

Name=it=yourse/f
Hey fellas! Are you starting a new beat-group?
You would like your group to be very popular, like the Beatles, Rolling Stones, Shadows etc.
You w~uld definitely want a JAZZY & JUICY name for your group. This is were we come in.
We Will help you select a suitable name for your group. Our latest list is designed to suit
your profession, or your course (or your natural features).

Please help yourself to ally of thes(J:
The Alkalies
The Armatures
.. Fruit Salts
" Bus-bars
Electrons
" Phantoms
" Viscounts
.. Positrons
.. Ignitrons
" Apollos
" Cosmonauts
" Thyratrons
JI
Cashewnuts
" Diodes
" Peanuts
" Heptodes
.. Nuts
" Toads
It
Frogs
" Bolts
.. Drill~Bits
" Horses
" Tit-Bits
" Carpet-Baggers

The Lignites
.. Martensites
" Tube-Lights
" Turbans
" Urbans
" Suburbans
" Drain-pipes
" Chimneys
" Cock-Tails
.. Pig-tails

We are always at your service

For further help please Co"tact us persollally
THE BALSUBS

CHEMISTRY OF
THE MUOPOT
OccW'ence: Mugpots, also called bookworms, are generally found haunting libraries
and reading rooms. When fouad in their
own rooms, they are usually in a peculiar
;;,tate termed misery. Chronic mugpots are
not influenced by the nearness of the exams.
Preparation: Laboratory method. By the
direct combination of students and books,
with merit scholarships as catalysts and the
President's Medal as promoter.
Student + " books = Bookworm + Gas.
(Skeleton Equation).
Manufacture: They are obtained on a large
scale when a class is well brainwashed and
steamed through lectures at high temperatures
and pressures.
Physical Properties: Taste-Th~y have
no taste for subjects other than books.
Colour-They have a pale colour, but evolve
a reddish gas when irradiated with questions
or otherwise induced to precipitate what they
have crammed.
They often have a skeleton-like appearance,
but this is not reliable enough to be used as a
confirmatory test.
Chemical Properties: They are inert in
nature and do not combine with easy-going
people.
They become unstable when brought into
the field of action. As soon as they come
into big halls, they decompose, evolV'ing gQ$,
heat and disgust.
.
They have a great affinity for books, and
are generally found with them (hence the
name).
They are bleached when touched with a
glass rod dipped in humorous acid. They
are reduced to tears in a medium of trying
circumstances. Acid comments induce violent
decrepitation. They do not absorb pyrophoric
tobacco.
Uses: They're absolutely useless except as
a source for tutorial cog~sheets.
(With apologies to whoever thinks this
applies to him).
VARGHESE GEORGE.

Dr Biegel' Hates Mosquitoes!
• But for these mosquitoes' said Dr
Bieger, , I am having a very nice time here.'
Professor in Structural Engineering at the
Technical University, Hanover, Dr. Bieger
was here for a month under an invitation
from the department of Civil Engineering.
During his stay here, he gave a series of lec~
"lures supplemented by slides.
-Campastimes

& SRINIVAS.

ANNOUNCING ONE
GLORIOUS AND
COLOSSAL EXPEDITION
The Outdoor Club will organise a geological.cum.zoologicaI ~cum~just.for- the~heck-of-it
expedition for the thorough exploration of a
newly discovered mountain range.
The range, named after Sir Joseph Q.
Thiskundiah, its discoverer. is at a location
approximately 1,50,000 mm. due south of the
nesting place of the famous Ganga geese.""
Since this range, believed by some to contain
th~ source of the Alakananda river, is in a
reservation exclusively"inhabited by a strange
trodglodytic tribe, extreme precautions are
being taken for the expedition. Members
will be provided with table fans, flame throwers, sub-machineguns, photocells, portable
laser units, triangular files, nylon fishing lines,
ping-pong bats, and, as a last resort. Mad
magazines.
Campastz'mes has in its possession the origi~
11al sketch map that Sir Joseph made. It is
not being published since no one is able to
understand what it represents; however, we
hope to get more information from the expedi~
tion. Anyone wanting to joi.n the expedition
can contact S. Gopal for details.
Secretary,
Outdoor Club
>I<

Now extinct.

FANTASTIC!
There is a move afoot to change the rules
" of that great gambling game of Flash-on
grounds of probability of random distribution.
A colour run, we maintain. should be Con~
sidered a better combination than a trio.
It is seen that the chances of obtainitlg a
trio are one in 425. The odds of getting a
colour run are also one in 425, but this
includes the unacceptable combination of
KAz. The odds are then increased by a
factor 13/U., bringing down the chances of
picking up a colour run to around one in 460.
Should the rules be changed accordingly,
it is also suggested that a minute's silence be
observed at all sessions in honour of those
who lai~ down ~heir life sa.vings defending a
run agamst a trIO.

-So

VISWANATHAN.

NCC CAMP, - REGARDING
All cadets are hereby informed that it has
now come to our notice that no NCC Camp
was held in the Winter Vacation.
Hence aU the cadets who did attend the
camp are required to meet the undersigned
and explain /low 01t eartlt they did so.
(Sd.)

RAMAN REDTAPE.

Clerk· in-Charge of threatening
letters and warning notices.

( Su mmer 1969

Is Mike Dead?
The Concise Oxford Dictionary might give
a number of possible meanings for the word
, death'. The }vord .' mike' has only one
meaning and that, as all IITians know, is the
public address system in our campus. The
chances of a physical death for.a mike are
l'Uled out for we have never seen a live mike
moving about places, talking to other members
of the same species. By 'death' we only
mean the stoppage of the flow of electl"OllS at
the right moment, which is noticeable almost
on all occasions at the OAT or CLT.
Everything seems to be alright when Dalton
and D. R. K. Naidu subject it to rigorous
tests and make it count from one to ten and
ten to one nearly ten times. The trouble
starts only when the actual function begins .
It is difficult to say whether the failure of the
system is due to the decision taken by the
man in charge of these arrangements who wants
to have a • power cut' at this very moment,
saving someth~Dg for the institute, or as a
mark of protest by the mike itself when it
doesn't weB agree with the views expressed
by the speaker.
We arrange AU India Debates thinking
that they will, serve as a guidance to our
students and, help some of them become
future politicians. The mike plays its role
here too. It knows one cannot become a true
politician in India, unless one masters the art
of crossing the floor a number of times during
a session and helps one in doing so.
There are many groups of likes, the guitar
variety and" the drums variety. Somehow
they never seem to come to a compromise on
any occasion, with the result that we find the
beat too low, the pitch of the guitar too high,
and the vocalist singing to himself.
" Years have roued by and we haven't had a
single function, be it the Cultural Week or
inter-hostel competitions when the IITians
have not vehemently expressed their dissatis~
faction about the mike arrangements made.
If we can't rectify the defect, let us do away
with this system and switch over to the
primitive but more successful method of
conveying the message adopted by those who
sell bug-killers and rat-poison on the
pavements.

-C. S.

SASTRI.

Tl1RE8 NU/fiBBRS ENCORED
The duo Elena Cardas and Ales Andrys~
zak, gave a performance entided ' Folk Songs
from 13 Countries' in the OAT on February
:2.1st, 1969. The songs included such wellknown numbers as 'Kumbaya',' Zambra
Mora " 'Havana Gila', • EI Vito' and
• KaHnka'.
Moses ••• •-(Continued)
pussy cat .• ," and then you turn to the
other girl and say c' See ya ", ... see, you got
to be real subtle like j otherwise you can't
hope to go far in this game.'
Moses Itnov,ts everything about the movies.
He was telling me once about how he had
gone for a Warner Brothers' movie and felt
like a fool when he realized that he had
already seen the movie---when the liolt started
roari1lg!
Moses is a citizen of Toothukodi and is
quite a man-about~town there-at least ever
since the annual binge of the palmyrah
climbers back in 1964 where, I'm told, he won
the Juniors' . at toddy tapping.
Before I forget, do you know how girls
get colds? Showers and rains and aU things
wet? No, says Moses. If girl A has a cold,
it must be because he was talking to A's
friend B, and A saw that and went and cried
herself to sleep, waking up the next morning
with a nasty cold.
It is past midnight. Moses is in bed reading the latest James Hadley Chase. On the
cover is the usual picture of a murdered girl,
in bikini, lying in an open grave. Moses
closes the book and looks at the girl. Oh my
God, he thinks, there is no mistaking the
invitation in her eyes I
-GOPE.

