-Summer.' [,96.9 J
CARICATURE

PONNIAB MOSES
VEDAMANIKKAM
[t was a beautiful morning back in 1963wet grass, dew-laden flowers and all the rest
of'the poet stuff. The cattle from Velacheri
and Taramani were walking along lazily down
the path behind Tapti Hostel to the milking
shed. Behind groups of them came the
milkmaids in~charge. It was a m9rning to
warm the heart. If you could throw in a
lone flute-player, sitting with his hack
against a tree, Bhavanagari could shoot a
couple of documentaries for the Films
Division right there.
.
Suddenly the morning air was filled with
the scream of a frightened woman (Just like in
movies). Frightened women, as a rule,
scream and let it go at that. But our heroine
was' no run~of-the-mill woman-after the
scream she let fly enough bad language in 5
minutes to last an ordinary man half his
lifetime.
Now it had come to pass that just about
the time the milkmaids were approaching
Tapti, Ponniah Moses Vedamanikkam had
woken up, like Abu Ben Adam, from a
deep dream of peace, stood up, stretched
and decided to look at something beautiful,
heart-warming and cheery. So he went over
to his mirror and gave himself a once~over
from top to toe.
He felt that he could easily mix without
comment in a gathering of Adonis, Eros and
such other Greek gods. That is, if he
happened to be passing by when such a
meeting was in progress they would roll out
the red carpet, sound the trumpets, fire the
gun~salute and welcome him in as one of 'the
boys '_", Perhaps you. don't know it but there ~s
a club the members of which go around believing that Moses looks like Steve Reeves below
his neck and Omar Shariff above. .As far as I
know it has only OIle member. Don't get me
wrong-I'm not saying that Moses is a narcisSist-it's just that he dislikes a hot\vater
bath, because it clouds the bathroom mirror.
Moses decided that he would look infinitely
hotter with a V -shaped torso. When he
\valked down the aisle in his church, he
wanted people to gasp and say that there went
a man with a V-shape. V-shapes don't grow
on trees. To commission one you have to do
a lot of corny exercises and Moses decided to
start right away. • I will not go to Church for
the next three months'. he mused, 'And by
then. by God, I will have a V-shape:
Then dressed after a fashion popularised by
the natives of certain South Sea islands,
posing for the National Geographic, Moses
climbed to the head of his bed and holc\ing
onto the window-bars, started doing a sort of
vertical push-ups. If Shelley were to pass him
then, he would have said, 'Hail to thee, Blithe
Spirit " and he would have meant it.
Milkmaids are people of the world. They
can take nasty things of life in theiL' stride.
But they draw the line somewhere-and having
to see underc10thed undergrads hanging about
the window-bars early in the morning, doing
informal stooge acts, is one place they felt a
line ought be drawn. If it was you or I who
had passed him we would probably have gone
Shakesperian and said, 'What bloody manner
of -man is this?' but milkmaids, like I was
saying, scream and yell.
In the days before Moses began spending
his surplus energy building V-shapes he was
accustomed to borrow bikes and go for long
rides. He was returning from one on a Saturday afternoon and found a horde of cars parked
outside his hostel. ft was the parents coming
to collect the kiddos for the weekend. When
parents come to boys' hostels to collect the
boys, it is inevitable that the sisters and
other girls in the family tag along. Moses
saw the girls. He looked again •••• there
was no mistaking the invitations in their eyes,
he felt.
So he began to pedal with renewed vigour.
What little V~shape had been built up was
put up for show. Then, drawing in his

C A'M PAS TIM E S
paunch to accentuate the V, he began pedaUing,
0
down the 45 ~ncline towards Tapti.
By now Moses and bike were just a flash
weJl down the incline. Moses was still
watching. the gir1s and the girls were watching
Moses' antics. He was wondering what the
girls would have been thinking of him. They
would probab1y be saying to themselves, 'My
hero' ! thought Moses applying the brakes.

The bike had no brakes. In the hurried
affair that life has become these days, people
often forget to mention such trivials.
Thei"e was time only for his face to register
surpdse and then horror. Then it was all over.
The granite wall which had been looktngforward
to a peaceful weekend met the tyre, steel and
Moses' head in rapid succession. The front
wheel of the bike met the chain~guard and
by now Moses had gone over the wall and
met a few bikes parked there, and they all
met the good earth. (Such a lot of social
activity in such a short time. no ?). Anyway
he picked himself up, with the air of a man
Who can be checked-yes, but vanquished,
never, and though he felt . like something
excavated from the tomb of one of the earlier
Ptolemies, he puffed up his chest and made
way to his room where he collapsed.
Which all goes to show that. there are ways
and ways of impressing people.
Moses' sense of humour has got to be
seen to be believed-there is so little of it.
Chaps cracking jokes to him for the first time
have that sick feeling that there goes another
one that hasn't quite fallen with the sunny
side up. They are all the more annoyed
when five minutes later he takes time off for
a little guffaw. In Electrical Engineering there
is a'similar phenomenon. It's called phase-lag.
As a humorist Moses may not end in the
first ten but he is a master as far as indiscretions go. I was present once when Moses

3
issued an ultimatum at the OAT. He had
gone to borrow a cigarette and he returned
and found that his seat was occupied by
someone else. Moses knew the intruder long
enough to realise that a backbone had been
carelessly omitted from his composition, and
that he was quite half Moses' size. So he
put on the appearance of one who would
chew him to the bone for tuppence-perhaps
even waive the tuppence to maintain his
amateul' standing-and in a burst of confidence
said, 'I will count till five. You better get
off that seat by then' That was a mistakehe didn't know how it went after three.
Moses has always stood first in his cIasswhenever somebody yelled, 'Let's· .mass· cut
this lecture and go home'.
Like most men Moses too believes
that he is the reincarnation of Casanova and
that it is his dharma to keep women hllPPY
and thrilled by allowing them the benefit of
his company for a while now and then.
While most of us are content with dreaming
up fantasies, Moses is convinced. deep down
in his heart that God made him as a gift to
womenhood.
He had his first 'affair' when he was
fourteen; he go~s around saying. It seems
that he met the daughter of a family friend
(there was no mistaking the invitation in her
eyes),and they got aroWld fora couple of games
of hide and seek, built a few sand castles and
then while he took the high road, she took
the low and neither on the Bonnie Bonnie
bar,ks of Loch Lomond nor anywhere else
have they met ever since.
Many times the rains came and went and
then at Vellorel where he had gone to meet
his brother he ran into an old schoolmate
of his. He saw her standing with the sun
on her windswept hair, flush on her cheeks
and all the rest of the Denise Robbins stuff
and that unmistakable invitation in her eyes.
So he took her to see Tippu Sultan's fort
nearby, caught a movie at the local cinema and
returned her home. This Moses considers
i~ such a torrid affair that he doesn't want
people below 16 reading this para.
Does all thi~ stop there? No, man, no I
He boards a .bus and in the eyes of the girl
sitting across the aisle there is that invitation
h~ looks o}1t of the window and a couple of
girls passmg by look up and damn it all
'
there is that unmistakable. • . •
. As I was sittin~ in my room s?metime ago,
In the throes of lIterary composition I heard
the shuffle of lY,foses' feet approaching my
room. I was prepared for the worst as I could
hear that he was singing, as much a treacherous
memory would permit, of a popular senti~
mental ballad.
My fears were well founded-he walked
into my room and told me that he had every
reason to suspect that a little girl of about
twenty-two had fallen in love with him. 'What
does she mean? ' he yelled, 'Doesn't she know
that I'm a seasoned man in these affairs? '.
'Take it easy Ponniah', I told him, 'How
many girls can fight their impulses when they
are looking at an Omar Sharif?'. That
pleased him and he decided to get elderbrotherly,. 'Listen Gope/. he said, • If you
ever fall In love, and the girl falls right back
in love with you-this sort of thing is
happening to me every now and then-you
must show your affection for her in little
ways. Like, w~en you are crossing the street,
hold her elbow, but I guess that you are
not as experienced as I am in these mattersvery few are-so you just walk by her side
as you cross the street'.
'Hunh, hunh.:, that's all I could get in.
, Then again pope, there may be complica
tions', he warned.
'Like how?' me; curious I
'Oh, there may be two girls falling for
you at the same time-I've had to face that
problem from time to time.. In such cases
one has to be very subtle in telling one of
them off. I think the best time to do that
woUld be when you are telling them good
night. Now listen carefully-, it's got to be
real subtle. First, you tell the one 'you are
fond of, "Good night, dearie,.. I'll see
you soon no sweetie pie? .•. sweet.·dreams
w

(Contd.

01l

p. 2, col. 3)

