CAM PAS T I·M.E S
~ RB Profe§sors born or are

they made?

~ Wdl to stilrt with they have to be born.

That's as good a beginning as any. But
what happens next? Row does one reach the
top, the dizzy rarefied atmosphere of the world
of a Professot?
These are questions that plagued the frail
faculties. of one facuLty member Shri Perceival
P. Goulti. There's absolutely nothing wrong
in being an Associate Lecturer, he told himself. What hurt was the fact that he was the
most lI.soociate of tue associate lecturers.
He l'esolved to do something about it. The
resolution was in fact made quite some time
ago. Now he resolved to get results from.
his resolution. He looked at the time, almost
-4 p.m., time to get things moving. He pick~d
up his papers from the desk and put them In
an important looking bag, the kind you would
expect any self-respecting 007 to carry around
on business, and briskly strode Qut into the
weakening hOurs of the p.m. bent on having a
chat with destiny.
The house in front of which he parked his
faithful cycle bore the kgend Prof Torsion
L. Cl,lckQo.
.
He strode in Witll a proprietorial air with.·
out the benefit of such prea,mbles as a knock.
Not because of any lack of manners but
mainly because no Associate Lecturer ever
knocks.

Story:

'1r\~)'

1E I6

[Summer, (969

~~

N~1r il~

1EIa

~

IP'~~IPIB§§~1E

ARVIND JOHARI

/Ifusfrclfion: S.

GNANCHANDRA

He found the Professor's daughter, Crises
L. Cuckoo sitting deeply engrossed in a
magazine. Warming up to his task he came
up behind her and put his hand over her
eyes.
• Three guesses who it is I '
• The President of India,' she said and put
her hand over his.
< Try again.'
• The Registrar.' .
• Fortunately that finishes with the top
echelon. Now then your last ~guess.
'Perceival P. Gould, Associate Lectured'
< Wonderful,' he removed his hand and
moved across to a vacant chair opposite her,
• How did you guess? '
• Well it couldn't have been father. It's
too eady for him, and besides: she added
sensibly, • you've been doing this ever.y day
for the past two weeks.'
, Are you complaining? )
, You know I'm not:
His gaze fell on the book she was reading.
«What's a. nice girl like you doing with a
book like that?' he asked with a horrified
look ~n his fa<:e. It was a Science Journal.
'There's an article by father which l
think even you should read: she replied
defensively.
, Really 1 And what does deal." Papa have to
say this time t'
, Much too high for me,' she sa~d) • some~
thing about a guy called Newton bemg wrong.
Papa. has proved that when an apple detaches itself from a tree it doesn't really fall.
It's the tree that goes up. Relativity you
know. I'm sure you'll appreciate it more if
you read it yourself.'
That's eJ(actly what Shri Perceival was
afraid of. Not the appreciating part but
the ha'ling to read· it-yourself bit. Scientific
Journals were his own private hell. An? if
he knew his Prof. Cuckoo at aU, this is one.
journal he would have to read from cover to
coYer. He groaned at the very thought.
'What's wrong Percy?' asked Crises all
solicitous·like.
, Nothing.'
'You've been working too hard again,' she
accused him.

• There's no short cut to becoming a
Professor,' he told her with the air of a
philosopher, and felt the way n good
hypocrite should.
'I suppose you remember, today is our
Big Day?' he asked, after a pause.
'Yes,' she said, • but you're the one who'$,
going to do aU the talking.'
I Of course, you leave eV'erything to old
Percy.'
, What are aU those papers you keep carry~
ing around with you r Is that the resear.ch
work you're doing? '
< Oh dear, no-they're just something to
carry in the hand. It makes one look more
like an associate lecturer:
He dipped into his bag and produced 9.
sheaf of papers. (The plll37l0menOn of the

sinki1lg of Mexico Cit)' as compared to tke
si"king of the OAT, neat what?' the next one
read' A study of stresses iltduced witltbt glass
as 12 direct impingetfleftt of air due to the
vacuum created
tlte exciusi01l of cork from

by

it's neck. My younger brother thinks up the
titles. I th.ink he has a gift for such things.'
Just then Professor Cuckoo walked In. Our
Associate Lecturer halltily put his papers back
into his bag.
• Hello Goulti, ho,,- are you. ?' mumbled
the Professor. The distaste in his voice
couldn't really be disguised better.
I I Wll.t; just reading your article, Sir,' adlibbed Perceival, , Sound reasoning, wonderful theory.'
Here's a cube for you, thought the Pl'ofes-sor. boesn't haV'e anything better to do than

to read Science Journals. < Thank you, .el',
won't you sit down? I have been meanmg
to have a little talk with you for qu.ite
sometime.'
, Nothing like the hel·e and llDW, Si.r}
< vVb.y don't you get yourself something to

doP
'I do have something to do Sir.'
, 1 mean generally. And.apart from your~
um-work in th.e Instltute, Somethmg
serious/
'Being all associate lectUl:er is a very
serious business, Sir.'
• I know, '1 know. What 1 h~d hl mi~d
was something realistic, sometJung more ln
keeping with your dynamic character. Today we match people with their profession.
Not the other way around.' Professor
Cuck.co was on. his favourite topic and was
sav?uring every minute ?f it. • ~ man of
actlon like you has no buslness rottIng away
at ~ desk.'
This ' ....as strange talk from the Professor
Shd Perceival did not like it one hit. He
asked 'Could you suggest a better opening
for me, Sir?'
'Certainly I could I For one thing have
you noticed how sky scrapefS afe almost here
in Indin, In this field, for a man of your
talents, the sky is the limh.'
, You mean designing skyscrapers, Sir?'
'No, I mean as an Aperture Renovator.'
• What's that? )
• One who cleans windows, naturally.'
IOh !'

