Summer, 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~

• I also feel you could make a very successful Landscape Engineer •.•••• that's the
man who picks up papers in the park, if you
follow me,' he added confidentially.
Shri Goulti followed him. He had been
expecting some such exposition of his
potentials for a long time, ever since his
design for a reinforced bath tub had fallen
through. But that it should come to -day and
in the Professor's own house was something
he did not expect.
'Then again,' continued the Professor, in
full bloom by now. • What with aU the new
hotels and theatres coming up you could
pursue a very successful career as an Entrance
Traffic Co-Ordinator.'
'You wouldn't mean a doorman by that,
would you, Sir ? '
, That's right,' replied the Prof happy that
his hireling could be so bdght, ' but you don't
have to translate it for your relations.'
By now Shri Goulti had nervously
chewed his way down to the last nail on his
last finger and was in the unhappy position
of being precariously perched on the last sq.
cm. of his chair. Lesser mortals in his place
would have done the same thing. After aU
it was a question of bei.ng separated from
your bread and butter exploits. Desperately
he thought it was now or neV'er. He decided
to take the plunge before it was too late.
, Sir, I have news for you. I want to marry
Crises.'
It look all of five minutes for the message
to register. The Professor's features underwent all sorts of contortions. For a fleeting
moment Perce ivai thought his· timing was
Qut.
C You mean ..... I mean ....... You said ..
• • . . . . • •' his equanimity was shattered. He
looked at Perceival. He was still there. He
tried again.
'Are you trying to tell me you want to
marry my daughter t ;
'Yes Sir. It's not entirely my idea. It's
her's too,' said the brave man.
, Crises, is it true what this chap says ? '
• I'm afraid it is Papa.'
, Well, well, well,' said the Prof at last in
'Same semblance of control over himself,
'This gives a new dimension to the whole
.affair I But have you stopped to consider
the disparity in your ages r' He was a practical man ill spite of being in a theoretical
profession.
Crises opened her mouth, but Perceival
-spoke first 'It's merely a matter of ten years,
Sir. If Sybil Burton could marry a man fifteen
years younger than herself, I don't see why
·crises can't do the same thing. Even Josephine
was eleven years older than Napolean when
he married her. These things happen all the
time.'
• Hmmm, I'm sure they do,' said Prof
Cuckoo, and for the first time really felt
'sorry for the name he had given his daughter,
• Let me be the first to congratulate you on
-your excellent taste, Mr Goulti.'
r
It wasn't until almost a year after the wed.ding that Perceival P. G:mlti, officially became
A'3st Prof Perce-ivai P. Goulti.
THE END

Toodle-doD, GOpe!
When Gopakumar wrote' Little known Facts
-about some vVell-known People' his talent
-was at once recognized by Campastimes and
he was taken in as the official caricaturist.
Later, Gope signed up as a regular columnist
10 take over the Cup from Vijay Reddy. With
Gope there were no delays; always on time he
was, with the Cup and Caricatures. He has
.enjoyed the position of one of the most
popular writers in Campastimes.
-EDITOR.

2

PERSONALITIES

NAZIR AHM-ED
Around the miracle at Gajendra Circle,
there are a few places like the Library and the
Girls' Hostel that some of us never seem to
visit - - and some simply haunt them. Well,
if you've been avoiding the Library, you've
been missing something. It is full of books
and magazines, you know, and you can understand most of them.
These vaunted 80,000 or so volumes have a
full·time guardian angel worrying over them.
But the worries seem to leave !Vir. Na~ir
Ahmed looking as youthful and enthusiastic
as ever. . • . a remarkable achievement for a
librarian. He has on his hands a mighty
populous Campus full of spritely juveniles
and scarcely more dignified adults - - but
he's been trained: oh yes, the techniques
acquired in the upbringing of two sons and
four daughters should serve him wel!.
Small of stature, soft spoken and scholarly,
his presence is nonetheless commanding. He
has a ready smile for anyone who cares to
meet him. 1£ you want to sell him an idea
regarding the Library, he'll be encouraging
and appreciative and will tell you with heartfelt regret what exactly makes it so thoroughly
impracticable. And he's always right.
He has the regular round of library troubles
on his mind. Some users are not very
particular about the number of pages they
leave behind in invaluable books - - others
evince a peculiar emotional and physical
attachment to entire books. And a few
jokers add their simply priceless remarks to
those of the authors. Tut, tut ! The attenders
tread in fear lest the depredations of some
roving delinquent land them ill the soup . . •
, for letting it happen' !
In these days of increasing preoccupation
with information, its storage and retrieval,
Library Science is assuming proportionately
everyone,
greater
importance - - for
especially engineers. We already have a
sizable chunk of the Humanities on our
curriculum - - Mr Nazir Ahmed, all innocence and good intentions, wants to give us a
does of Lib. Sc. for one term ! . • .? . . •
yes, yes ; but he means well.
He visited the Federal Republic of
Germany along with our scientists and technologists last year. and the impact of his tour of
various libraries there wiII soon be seen in
ours. The Library, he says, will be transformed into a ride in a bookworm's Disney-

land, replete with book-bearing trolleys,
microfilm projectors, photostat cameras,
teletypewriters and other exotic accessories
which may well make US pause to blink. One
undeniable benefit to all will be two airconditioned reading rooms.
Mr Nazir Ahmed also wants student representation on the Library Committee which

so far has counted only Indian and German
professors in its membership. Which is
precisely what we would have wanted had we
known anything about the existence of the
Library Committee (!) regardless of whether
that would have been of any use to us. If it
serves to make us more interested in the
Library, it is a welcome move.
It is heartening to know that we have Mr
Nazir Ahmed at the head of what amounts to
the JIT Information Agency.
STOOP.

(Material collected by K.S.R.)

GUESS HOW
You can pronounce' Sjezdergzeweizdjekjy/
Close your nostrils with the thumb and forefinger of your right hand. Blow twice through
your right nostril for five seconds, alternately blow through left and right, repeat at 0.25 seconds
intervals, blow through the left two and three quarter times. Then close both your nostrils and
blow. What, you can't? Well, hard luck I That's how it is pronollnced.
-VIJAY SARlHAN.

P.S. I hope Ravi doesn't read this. He'll kill me for bOl'Cowillg his idea.

LITERARY QUIZ-RESULTS
All entries had atieast two errors. No prizes are awarded
I. The attraction of man and womanfor each other is fundamental.
(The Home and the World --Tagore)
z. The virtue of aU achievement is victory over Ol'leself.
(How I found the Grace of Perseverance - - A. J. Cronin)
3. Kids are always surprised to find evil in theil' parents, and shocked to find it in
themselves.
(A Sense of Values - - Sloan Wilson)
4. In this world of incessant and feverish activity men have little time to t!tink, and
much less to consider ideals and objectives.
(The Success of Non~Violence - - Nehru)
5. There are times when nothing a man can say is so powerful as saying nothing.
(The Man Nobody knows --- Bruce Barton)
6. Nature's bounties are unaltered.
(Guy Mannering - - Scott)
7. Grief is the most private emotion a human being can have•
(Call Me Lucky - - Bing Crosby)
8. Most men are more afraid of being thought cowards than of anything else.
(The Oxbow Incident - - Walter V. T. Clark)

