6.

C·A M PAS TIM E S

FICTION

V. S.

KUMAR

THE BOMB THAT WON
THE WAR
whee-e-e-a thump Crash! !
THE bombs continued to rain down and
explode indiscriminately near the station as people
scurried for shelter. There could be however seen
a few loiterers here and there who, it looked, were
held to the ground out of a mad fascination for the
fireworks and the destruction all around. Towatds
the left of the station stood a concrete observer's
post with slits all around and on one side of it
facing the runway could be seen a small rectangular window of thick armoured glass eerily reflecting the fires raging in some of the buildings. A
face that had been pressed to glass from inside
suddenly withdrew and II shutter came down on
the glass, its colour almost matching the concrete.
That face belonged to Sqn. Ldr. Ratnakar, Senior
Armament Officer of the station. There was a
kind of smirk on his face as he walked away
from the window and it continued to grow as he
spoke with precise but impatient gestures to
another officer seated behind a desk.
'May be, but our mcn are far better when it
comes to bombing. You have yourself attended
some of our target practices and that ought to give
you an idea '.
r But, Sir,
even presuming the encmy are all
stupid and ill-trained, they just cannot be that bad
to waste so many bornbs on nothing. They have
not hit a single installation on this field. All that
burning is outside the station. That's why I have
my own doubts about our own performance.
Some of the pies the boys brought back look quite
good but not too good. Their planes continue to
come over in large numbers. So our bombing is
probably not as effective as we would like it to be.'
The Group Captain stirred uneasily in his chair
for a moment before he spoke again. He did not
evidently like what he was saying for there could
be seen a pent-up anger on his face.
'Look, Squadron Leader, it's all right your
telling me what you think, but for God's sake
don't run away with your mouth in the mess or
the club. The boys are already jittery and I don't
want them upset by ground-hOgs IiIte you. Oh,
I know you have a flying license but that does
not make you a combat pilot. Stick to your
drawing boards and armouries and stores and
give us what we ask for. And don't hang around
in this hell-hole watching the fires like a Nero;
yeah, I know all about Nero, even though I am only
a matriculate. The trouble with chaps like you-'
The telephone on the desk rang shrilly for a
few seconds before the O. C. answered.
• Yes, Officer Commanding here. How many f
Three only? Wounded? Not bad at all. Our
A.R.P. is good. Yes, Yes, I am coming round.
Send some of the medics out and see to the
villagers.' He replaced the receiver and stood up.
, Come on, let's get out of here. The all-clear has
been given. Our AR.P. exercises are a great success.
Only three wounded after half an hour's bombing.'
The two officers left the pill box through a
low door and climbed up a few steps to the side
of the runway. They automatically shaded their
eyes and before they had walked a few steps a
staff car drew up by their side and an N.C.O.
got out and saluted and in the same movement
held the rear door of the car open for them.
As they drove nearer to the control tower they
could hear excited voices talking and they could
feel the pent-up breathlessness slowly easing.
Sqn. Ldr. Ratnakar was moody that night and
nO one disturbed him as he sat alone at a table
in the Officers' mess nursing an already cold tea
in front of him. Even the pilots who usually
pulled his leg kept away as th?ugh sensing somew
thing wrong. He was prepanng to leave when
two senior officers came in, accompanied by the
Group Captain. To his surprise they walked
straight to his table, for these pilot types usually
kept their own company and rarely sought the
counsel of ground ollicers. He stood up slowly
trying to read their faces and even as they exchanged greetings he knew that they had something
serious on their minds. There was the usual
noise and false gaiety at the bar but none seemed
aware of his surroundings. The O.C., after
ordering drinks, told the Sqn. Ldr. to leave with
them for a conference at the groupwheadquarters,
twenty-two miles away. The Sqn. L~r. did not
mind these conferences for they gave him a chance
to pilot his ~ov~ aircraft on the short .run t? Gr.
Hq. and ~is rurfilghts were one of the ?lg~est Joke~
in the statIOn. Even the C.O. called hIm Cabby
sometimes.
When they left the mess it was just striking seven
and they had a few minutes for a • shot' at
the Gr. Hq. before they walked into the conference
hall. There were barely ten other officers in the
room and they were all gathered round a huge
relief map. One of them was pinning tiny flags on
the map and explaining something, while the
others hemmed and hawed.
As the four officers walked in, an Air Vice-Marshal
detached himself from the map group and walked

towards them. He rcturned their salute and shook
hands.
• Let's see now gentlemen, let's see. We have
got a king-size problem and we must solve it soon.
r asked for you, Ratnakar because you secm to be
a thinking type. Your O.C. tells me you have
been rather unhappy about the bombing. Well,
so are we. The A.M. says we can't waste a single
bomb. What with the aid cut off and all, you
know. He has thought up a new slogan "shoot to
kill and bomb to destroy". Come on let's sit and
get down to the problem'.
They went to the huge conference table in the
middle of the l·oom and the A.V.M. took his seat
at the head while the others sat on the sides. The
group at the map immediately dissolved and seated
itself arOlmd the table. An Adjutant came in
through a side door carrying a large brief case.
He pulled a chair and sat just behind the AV.M.
and silently handed over a sheaf of photographs.
• Now gentlemenj most of you havc seen these
photos our boys brought back. Those of you who
have not may now examine them. Here, pass
these around, Monty'.
He paused and continued after a few minutes.
You ,vill all concede that we are almost all the
time on the target. But the reconnaissance pics
show that the damage is very little. It certainly
is more than what they have done to us, but that's
no consolation. We have more vulnerable targets
than they, especially civilian targets. The Prime
l\rIinister, I am told, is rather worried about it.
It seems he asked the AM. if we could not in
one stroke put all the enemy airfields out of
action! He also wants the enemy planes destroyed·
on the ground because it will calise the least
damage to human life! I l(now, I know, but we
can't jUst turn round and say impossible to the
Prime Minister, can we? That apart, I want to
impress upon you people that the situation is
pretty serious. If we can at least partly fulfil
the P.M.'s wishes we would have saved the dav.
That's why I want you gentlemen to think freeiy
and express yourselves freely. I want ideas and
I want action'.
• Just a minute Sir I I want to know who assessed
the damage we caused. It seems to me the boys
have really pounded the targets and with the
ldnd of equipment we have nobody could have
done better' .
The A.V.M. smiled' I am for you G.C. and the
boys. But the intelligence chaps have convinced
the A.M. that the enemy air force is still
largely operative. They feel some kind of a new
bomb should be devised which can cause maximum destruction. They agree our boys are
invariably right on the target and so they are
convinced a better bomb would do the trick'.
There were sceptical murmurs all around until
Sq. Ldr. Ratnakar spoke up.
'That's what my people have been working on,
Sir, and I think we should try one of their new
ideas to see if it works '.
• That's good news Sqn. Ldr., but at what stage
are you? just an idea?'
, I am afraid it's just being put on the blue-print
Sir, but will need the go ahead to make one.
Then there's the question of modifying the bombcarrier. I am told not a single aircraft can be
spared for experiments'.
'Well, I can gi ....e you the go ahead but it's true
aircraft cannot be spliced. Anyway that need
will arise only after you have made the bomb.
Even for that the A.M. should be satisfied with the
blue-print you have. How long will you take to
make one ready?'
; I think in another week we can give you the
blue-print '.
r Time is of the essence my man,. I want it the
day after. The A.M. will be here then and we
can sell it to him right here instead of going through
channels and so on.'
, I will try. Meanwhile I would like your permission to get to work on the carrier as well.'
have an idea Sir,' said Monty spealdng for the
first time, 'Why not let my bird, I crashed, be
spared? It's on ground any way for another two,
three days-that's what the R and D boys tell me.
Ratnakar may as well work along side and finish
with the carrier. I will any way test fly and I
might as well test the carrier at the same time'.
• Fine,' said the A.M. 'Then it's all settled. I
will buzz the Rand D and you go ahead. Now I
want you Ratnakar to be at my HQ the day aftel'
with the blue-print say about eleven in the morning-will that be alright? That's all gentlemen,
back to work '.
When Ratnakar got back to the Armoury it was
almost ten and he felt drowsy after the heavy meal
at the mess. As he approached the west wing he
could see his lab boys still at work and he felt
proud of them. He had set them an almost impossible task and they were sparing no pains to
work it out. He entered the room quietly and
stood behind a Flying officer who was completely

,r

absorbed in the drawing before him. When Ratnakar asked r. How is it coming along?' The Fly.
O. literally jumped out of his shoes.
'Oh, it's you, Sir', he replied, blinking through
his horn-rimmed glasses. 'I think it's perfect on
the drawing board, but we must give it a trial in
the air. Aero·dynamically it ought to have smooth
sailing, but we have yet to hit upon a front curve
to fit into the aircraft's streamline. The trouble is,
this cover has'to be separated from the bomb before
impact '.
• What happens if you leave it on the bomb? '
• Oh no, Sir, the bomb must assume its spherical
disc shape before touching ground if it is to revolve
like a top and throw explosives around and cause
maximum damage'.
• All right', assuming we can design II suitable
cover with an ejection mechanism, how do you
expect it to dive in a curved trajectory, unless you
make a long nose cover to make it air-worthy ? '
• Yes Sir, that's a prohlem too, we must either
make a suitable nose cone, or devise a tail-piece,
which can also be ejected'.
r That means every time you drop a bomb, you
have to jettison II nose cone, and a tail and that
means a lot of waste of precious metal'.
'Yes, that can't be helped, but it's a bomb they
want Sir, andwe are giving it to· them "
• No, my dear fellow, its fine for you to put it
that way. but the Air Marshal will throw a fit if
he catches on to the waste. And with the experience I have had with him, I am not too sure he
won'.t pounce on it the moment he looks at your
drawing. I would rather you thought of a different
design, or I will be in for a lecture '.
, But, Sir, at this stage if I am to redesign the
whole thing it may take me weeks I'
'No, flying officer, I want it tomorrow alld
double quick. Look. why don't we work on this
tonight and see if we can't solve it? r know you
haven't been out of this room for days now, but
you finish this, and I promise you II month of
vacation, war or no war I '
• Well, Sir, I don't see that r have to lose anything. Shall I join you after dinner r '
• No, you join meJor dinner, and we will walk
along to the Lab. later, O.K. ?'
III

, Radha, I have invited my Lab. offiCer for dinner.
I hope the notice isn't too short'.
• It is always too short, but I can manage. But
why this mad scientist again ? '
• Well, he is working on something very important and has been living on sandwiches and coffee
for the last twenty days. He has become so pale I
am afraid he will collapse one of these days. And
you know the M.O. too well for me to tell you how
he would react'.
, Since when' have you started bothering about
scientists' health ? I thought you were always bent
upon getting the work done ? '
'Oh, come on, I am not as bad as that. But
you are right. I have to get the work done, especially this assignment. It may even win the war
for us, so your dinner had better be good. It
should stimulate this man to fresh thinking.'
'And then Vir Chakra for you, promotion for
you, and a bigger kitchen for me I '
r You know I never trunk of the rewards I '
'Don't I ? Anyway I was just teasing you.'
And so the dinner was special that night and so
the fIying officer gorged himself and feIl asleep in
his lab chair the moment the Sqn. Ldr. left him
alone for a moment. The Sqn. Ur. did not disturb his assistant but sat in a straight chair with the
drawing pinned to the black board in front of him.
He thought and dozed and dreamed that he had
the solution.

'"
9
'"
When the morning Sun strode in, he found two
dishevelled figures in the midst of a confusion of
papers and instruments and, pitying them, withdrew behind a cloud. The duty officer had to
prod them into wakefulness on his last rounds in
the morning. As soon as he left they looked at
each other shame-facedly and started roaring with
laughter.
'All right, friend, we've had our rest, let's' get
on with the job I'
'Right away Sir! I think I have the solution.
It's rather simple'.
'Oh. you have, eh? I had a dream too that we
had the solution, but I don't remember what it is'.
• Here, Sir, let me explain it to you on the
drawing. Now J am scoring off this tail-piece.
We have only the nose cover left. Now what we
can do is make it a part of the plane and not the
bomb. It won't interfere with the stream, it is
light to carry and what more, if we can make it
into a horse-shoe with two long prongs and a
needle point centre, like this •.•........• It will
make an excellent device to shade the bomb from
curious eyes, especially in the air'.
'That's it my man, you've got it. I Imew you
could do it, and as of now you are on Jeave unless the A.M. himself wants you personally, sO
don't leave the station till the A.M. has gone. I
must now run to the Rand D boys and get the
work started'.
When the A.M. arrived with his staff he observed that the station was not ready for him for
he cotlldn't find a single smartly turned-out
officer. What's more, things were lying helter
skelter, especially near the Rand D hangars. He
could sense excitement and worry in the air but
he asked the C.O. in his usual fashion if there
was a fever around.
The C.O. couldn't contain himself: 'I want
you to look at a blue-print Sir, and tell us what
you think of it. '

