Summer. 1969 j

CAMPASTIM'ES

Blue print? What are you talking about 1
The new bomb, of course. Won't you come
this way Sir?' As he led the A.M. into the
camouflaged hangar he explained the genesis of the
bomb. As they approached a huge work bench,
Ratnakar and the Flying Officer sprang up to attention and saluted.
I At ease gentlemen.
Your C.O. has been trying
to sell me your bomb. Screaming Spit Fire I 1 hope
it is good. Now teU me what you boys are up to.'
As they bent over the blue print a Warrant Officer
quietly entered the hllngar and passed on a small
slip of paper to the C.O. Ratnakar who had noticed
this wondered why the C.O. looked so smug. But
in a moment he had to come back to the job at hand
because the A.M. was asking questions.
I What
is the weight of this damned contraption ?'
I Just a hundred pounds, Sir '.
I How do you know
the damned thing will spin
once it hits the ground? '
• Well, it's the principle of so many deflected jets
Sir. Now the outer casing has a lot of cordite which
will burn on impact, and the gases escaping through
the four vents will start the whole bomb spinning
like a lOP.'
• I see, but how do you detonate the bomb itself? '
I Well Sir, the spinning action
sets in motion a
firing mechanism which will detonate the bomb '.
'Very interesting, but if the damn thing just blows
up like any other bomb what is so great about it ? '
I That's
the point Sir, it not only blows UP.
but it also scatters the explosive around. From my
calculations I have concluded that all targets with
a three hundred yard radius will be affected'.
I What scattering?
Have you thought up a new
Ixplosive?
t 01'1
no, Sir. It's the good old incendiary
But it's the spinning of the whole bomb that
scatters the stuff'.
'Ob it's still spinning e:1? I thought it was only
to activate the firing mechanism. Not bl d at all
in theory. How long will you take to test it out?
As I see it, you got to ha....e a new carrier, which
means more money and wotse, more time t '
Ratnakar looked up at the C.O. and all faces
turned towards him for he was gr:nning like a cat.
I That'S taken
care of Sir' be announced with
justifiable pride. • I have just got the word that the
thing we made is O.K. The carrier is not only airworthy its a perfect hiding pltce for the bomb.
Thanks to our crazy scientist here.' He turned and
pumped the blinking Flying Officer's hand.
I.atnakar was elated. So was the A.M. But
should he tell the Prime Minister?
, O.K. chaps. I believe you And congratulations.
But 1 have to convince th~ Ministry. You just
demonstrate the whole thing and we will have it
in the bag'
When on the next day the A M. took off in his
ix-seatet plane he was as excited as the three others
with him. The C.O. wore a straight face but
Ratnakar and the Flying Officer were like small boys
jumping in their seats. The A.M. was even forced
to say I Now you ground hogs don't jump like jackrabbits, you will up.et the plane'.
Just as they were approaching the target area, a
dry scrub land with a few dummy butments
scattered in a circle, a screaming jct loomed ahead
and took a steep dive. They could all see a roun~
spinning object falling to the ground and held theIr
breaths until the thing hit the ground. For a
moment nothing seemed to happen and then they
could see lumps of fire snaking their way in all
directions and the hutments all went up in flames.
The flying officer was taken aback for a moment
when the A.M. hugged him and shouted' Boy, I
could kiss you I '
As they were flying back to the base, the A.M.
asked jocularly I Now ~ oung man, teU me what ~ut
you on to this fireworks wheel? And be honest!
The Flying Officer blushed and answered I Fireworks, Sir, These wheels are very popular. They
~re ..caUcd ,chokras. I once burnt my fingers
Igmtmg one. . .....
~

•

*

The bomb soon became a reality and put a
number of enemy installations out of action.
When the awards were announced at the end of the
year there wa3 not much jubilation among the
awardees as one of the awards was posthumous.
The flying officer had been killed in a jeep-truck
collision.
END.

SIDDHANTY
A hydraulic vibration machine has recently been designed and. fabricated by :ty!r
Siddhanty of the Department of AeronautICS
and Applied Mechanics. The machine,
believed to be the first indigenously· fabricated, can subject test specimens to vibrations
of high inertial forces, long strokes and low
frequencies (5 to 25 cps). The machine has
wide application, viz. to simulate rough road
conditions for testing vehicles, to shake
chemicals, and to find the natural frequency
of the human body! It is simple in principle,
construction, and performance; low in cost.
Mr Siddhanty was guided in his work by Drs
B. V.A. Rao and V. Ramarnurti.

-Campastimes News.

~a.s

of

7
com~,

tbe Walrus

.$ai~,

man}? tbings .. ~ .

They say that the new temples of Modern
India are its steel plants, where the Metallurgist
reigns supreme as the Pujari.
Stee] , of course, is the God, and woe
betide the pagan Who doubts Him. 'Worship
the God in the temple j Revere the Pujari 1 '
I do not know how metallurgists everywhere
(and others) feel about this gospel truth,
but the IITian pujaris get their first chance
to look at these shrines of progress only in
their final year. It is of our pilgrimage to
, Mecca' that I wish to enlighten you about,
here. (If you care to read it, that is.)
The tour itinerary was a crowded affair.
As is characteristic of the Metallurgy department, we were given hardly sixty minutes
to pack up and start moving, after s'weating
out the exams. Of course, NagarajRIl had no
trouble, since he had packed up three weeks
before. (It seems he thought that he would
gain some extra lmowledge about the subject
if he cultivated an intimate contact with his
frigid steel cot.)
We had hardly reached Madras Central,
when somebody suddenly realised nobody
had brought along the ultra-utilitarian plastic
mug. So we give a buck to L.V. and send
him to the Moore-Market to fetch one.
Return of L.V. with mug plus a hundred
and seventeen paise in it. Everybody
bamed, including L.V. 'fhen suddenly, the
puzzle unravelled itself. Theorised Golaps,
• He must have been singing on his the way
back, yar.' Good old L.V. we could always
rely on his talents if we ran short of dough I
The inevitable romantic interlude of the
train journey was provided of COurse by the
ape-man Jimbo (alias Bussa) and a restless
Malayali virgin yearning to attain the status
'of womanhood. And thanks to her indiscri.
minate generosity, IIT audience participation
soared to giddying new hdghts. Raghavan. of
course, stuck to his seat, since~he trusted no one.
Came Sunday morning, and we reached
Jamshedpur right on time. Mter a lingering
farewell to the obliging Madonna, we started
for the TI Hostels. Fortunately, both
accommodation and training were excellent,
and so was Jamshedpur.
On the very first day of the TISCO
plant visit, Bussa decided to play Hookey
with the staff-members and walked into the
coal yard. Luckily for them, they spotted
his fag bobbing up and down in mid-air.
The didactic lectures in the evenings were
extremely popular, but with Jamshedpur
Women's College being on the way, the staff
members had quite some trouble ensuring
full attendance.
Unmindful. of the frigid climate, everYN
body faithfully followed the dictum: • A bath
a day keeps the stink away.' Everybody,
that is, except Mital and Iswaran. Mital
protested that he was a devotee of Gangaka-pani and flatly refused to touch any
other water. And Iswal'an? Well, we all
know of Iswaran's obsession with hydrophobia
for the last tWenty-two years.
The nights at Jamshedpur sailed merrily
by, especially for those who relished a drink
or two along with dinner. It was one of
those not infrequent days when Ponniah
Vedamanikam's vanity was in full bloom
(and itching to wither ?). Most of us were
content with drinking rum or whiskey, but
not Ponniah! He would never stoop so lowl
With flourish and fan· fare, he ordered
for Vodka, explaining: I You know, Vodka
is best; I always drink Vodka.' Predictably,
the outcome was disastrous. And just as
predictably, when Iswaran in one of his
philistine moods tried to rag Vedkamanikam
about his adventure, Ponniah ejaculated:
'Individuals who perforce are constrained
to be domiciled in vitreous structures of
patent frangibility should refrain from employing petrous formations as projectiles, for,
after all, aberration is the hallmark of Homo
Sapiens while 10nganimous placability and
condonation are the indicia of Supramundane
Omniscience.' (Moses, obviously was preparing for GRE.)

Awestruck, lswaran stuttered: 'W-WhWhat, What do you mean, yar ? '
Ponniah: 'At least, I don't get drunk on
water, yar.'
Iswaran knows when he is stumped: • It's
O.K., yar, anybody (?!) can make a mistake.
(Especially if he is not familiar with water).
Anyway, so what, yar, I got a kick out of it.'
Sick Mundi: ' ]: kicked him, yar.'
And then there was T. S. Krishnan who
was found walking round and round a traffic
island. It seems he asked for • Madrasi
hotel " and somebody told him to follow the
traffic lights.
Just when it seemed that our efforts
at cultivating an intimacy with the belles
of Jamshedpur were bearing fruit, we were
rudely transported from Paradise to Purgatory.
The contrast between Jamshedpur on the
one hand and Rourkela and Bhilai on the
other, was frightening. True, the steel plants
in themselves were excel1ent, but sordid accommodation coupled with degrading facilities
can disillusion even the most persevering
ascetic. And added to this torture was a
new dimension: Adivasis and Panigrahis
swarming all over us.
Our Swamiji, summoning up all his accumulated wisdom and experience, had once
remarked with candour, that the Blast
Furnace resembled a woman. But in what
respect, he wouldn't say. This got Bussa
all excited and so asks Thadani, • 1 say; how
does the B.F. resemble a woman? '
, Search me,' says Thad.
Bussa: 'Is it the refractory lining? '
Thad: 'Can't be, because you've also got
one '.
Pervert Bussa: 'It must be the Bosh
then.'
Thad: ' Aw, come off it, dammitl •
Bussa, undaunted: • Then it must be the
two-track feed.'
And so it went.
Somebody once said that the science of
steelmaking is still lagging behind the art of
steelmaking. Says L.F., • It doesn't make a
damnrd diff to me I I am neither Picasso
nor Newton.'
Graduate engineers, we heard, were not
exactly doing well at Bhilai. Seeking confirmation, Thad went upto the elevator boy
in the B.F. stoves and asked, 'Hey bud,
what are -you? >. 'Graduate Engineer,'
murmured the guy under his breath. I How
come, pal?' Thad wanted to know.
'You see, it's like this. My Pa wanted
me to rise to great heights when I grew up,
and so, here I am.'
, Very well then, what are you grumbling
about? '
• Yeh? There are lot of ups and downs
in my life, you know.'
And that, was how it was.
V.G.K.

