8

CAMPAST'ME.S

ON WRITING AN ARTICLE
POR OAMPASTIMES
, BREAK, break, break on thy cold grey
stones 0 Sea I
ANO I would that my tongue could utter
the thoughts that arise in me.'
Actually, this has absolutely no connection
with the article. But it is customary to
start any article with a well~known quota~
tian. The more weUHknown the quotation,
the better are the chances of your article
being published, since the guy at the top feels
flattered if your article begins with a. quota~
tion'" • • .• which he vagueJy remembers as
having read. Look at the subtle way I have
pointe? out that an article must begin with a
quotatlOfl.
Anyway, let us come to choosing the topic,
which, of course. is the most important thing in
writing an article. You may feel puzzled by the
problem of choosing the right topic, but you
needn't be for long. AU you have to do is
to take a stroH to the Library (through the
inspiring short~cut, of course), borrow a
Wodehouse or two, copy down all the jokes
you don't understand, and unload them ell
maSSe into yon literary concoction or sprinkle
them generously, as it suits your taste,
This is after you have got the scenario of
the article, naturally. As to the main plot
itself, it can be anything. The very construction of the sentences depends on the type of
story you're going to write. If you're going
to write a murder story, leave violence out
of it, for IITians are very sensitive, especially
in and around the cerebral cavity. Give the
poor victim a chance to die peacefully. Let
the villain kill him by a heart-attack. And
leave the de3cription of dead man 'staring
out of unseeing eyes. hearing with unhearing
ears', etc. right out oi the story. Don't spoil
the suspense, not even at the end. If you
want to write a novel murder story, here is a
brilliant (very modest, of course) suggestion,
and would you believe it, no patent either.
'The killer is the guy on whom the author has
been piling suspicion after suspicion. If you
want to write an absolutely original love story,
original no more thanks to the (that blasted
modesty again, obstructing all my efforts to
put in a really good adjective) brain of the
author, write a love story in which the hero and
the heroine don't love each other but the
heroine loves the villain and the hero loves
the female counterpart of the villain (or $hould
it be the other way round ?). Don't ask me
who the V and the female CP of tne V love:
one can't suggest everything. can one? One
just gives the guidelines and leaves one (not
the one who was one once but a different one)
to one's own designs.
If you want to be philosophical in your
article, send a blank paper, thereby subtly
implying that all this world and the mate ..ial
benefits that accrue thereof is JUSt an illusion,
and God, being omnipotent and omniscient,
reigns supreme, spreading sweetness and light
over the dark desolate ruins of human
hopes. • •. 1 can hear you asking me how to
explain away this last bit of mumboHjumbo,
but almost any explanation will do since the
Editor will be much too proud to accept his
ignorance. But one thing. Don't complain
that I didn't warn you--don't rely wholly
upon the ignorance of the Editor. For example,
if you pull off sentences like, 'He lloticed an
imperceptible, inward gloW' showing boldly
upon his face,' you're sure to get pulled by
the wrong leg.
Now that I have revealed the secrets of
article-writing, there will be. I hope, a regular
rush of articles in Cam.postimes, and the editor
or. whoever is the guy behind the paper ,curtaIn, need not become bald due to exceSsive
scratching of his head thinking up new pseudonyms for the articles he has written (? 1 ).
And lastly, another piece of advice. Don't
leave any space on the paper on which you
are writing. Either cover it completely with
writing or cut off the remaining portion of the
pa.per. This ensures the return of the article,
because it allows no scope for the editor to do
his tutorial problems there.
As somebody said, probably Nelson,
, I have done my dooty, I am hoppy.'
-D. KALYANARAMAN
'" If you realty want to hit it oft' with the Ed'
(he probably doesn't know the rest of the spelling)
better start with some nursery rhyme,
Baa, baa, black sheep ••• I

[Summer, 1969

Personalities

The two and -more
Faces of Dr Swaminalhan
A straggling beard streaked with grey>
piercing deepHsunk eyes, a cynical smile-and
you are face to face with Dr Swaminathan.
You couid also identify him by the lack of a
few buttons here and there. There are those
'who hold that if ever 'beauty competitions
were to be held for the various curiosities in
the campus, he wouid have a tough time
coming first even if the only other entry were
the Gajendra Circle. However, appearances
are deceptive. Here we've got something to
heat tile chameleon changing its colour-Dr
Swaminathan before and after a session with
his neighbour's powered lawn mower. Since
Campastimes could never afford to fight a libel
suit, let me not pursue this any farther.
Dr Swaminathan joined the Physics DepartH
ment in '63. Ever since, nothing has remained the same. People started actually 1I1lder~
Sto11dilJg mechanics ill the first year classes. It
would be unfair to him to attribute- the positive brilliance in his lectures to his weIlmodulated voice with its untraceable accent.
However, it does help to be able to make out
what the lecturer is saying in the first place.
Perhaps that's the reason why so many of his
colleagues talk unintelligibly-they could cer~
tainly take a lesson from him. Even his habit
of occasionally marking the periodical grades
in Russian has its benefits-the guys who are
expecting C's or worse can keep kidding
themselves till January. 'The above preamble
having established a pl'ima jacie case for his
being an interesting personality, on to the
next paragraph.
One clear, bright Sunday morning (wish
somebody would pay roe by the word for this),
a group of us cornered the Beaid in his dendon't get ideas, guys. -After the usual
pleasantries. we explained the purpose of the
mission to him. His first reaction was a
toothy grin followed by> • So you chaps want
to have a good laugh at me, eh? I' The
missionary spirit was strong in us and we
refused to let him off the hook.
We first asked him for a few printabie facts
about his past career. Showing sagely wisdom
he replied, ' Let the past remain dead, gentlemen-suffice it to say that I was a rather indifferent student.' We were just about to tell
him that he was in the good company of
Einstein and others, when he said it himself.
(Here it may be mentioned that modesty is
not one of Dr Swaminathan's shortcomings.)
He also admitted that he still got along best
with the indifferent students.
Our next question was about his mysterious
trip -to Russia a few years ago. He had a suc~
cessful trip in that, to quote Bob Hope, C he
came back • \ He spent aU his time learning
Russian and avoiding Vodka. The actual
purpose of his trip? • Well, I was sent there
to do neutron research, but somehow; they
even forgot to show me a single nuclear reactor.' As a minor anticlimax, the Education
Ministry demanded a repol·t on his research
abroad!
His present line of research is X-ray crystallography where the Institute's present facilities are only meagre. H~ will be going as a
research scholar to Cornell University in the
near future (for about two years) where ne
hopes to do work on theoretical calculations of
molecular structure. (He stressed the fact
that he would be certainly coming back here
after his sojourn-more out of family and
sentimental reasons than the I My Motherland
blah blah' nonsense.)
Students and the student-teacher relation~
ship? He had the utmost confidence in the
natural intelligence of the average Indian
(' who perhaps ranks behind only the Jew and
the Chinese ') and held that both students
and teachers were to blame for the present
general disenchantment with the Estab1ish~
ment. < Perhaps the single most important
reason is the general ineptness of the teachers
which leads to indifference on both sides.'
He said we have an important lesson to learn
from the student uprisings in other countriesthe best remedy being more intimate contact
between students and lecturers; creation of
mutual trust between them, in fact a revival
of the old guru~s!lis"ya type of relationship.

He also wanted better research facilities,
installation of modern equipment and apparatus without the usual petty protests and red
tap ism, and guidance of future research along
constructive and purposeful lines. Unless
this took place, we would be no better than
our neighbours across the road.
We moistened Our lips and asked him
about his opinion on the place of women in
technical institutions and professions. He did

not exactly say • who pee • but ask.ed whether
we wou.ld deny the fact that (women lend a
certain grace and charm to our otherwise
dreary clas~rooms.' Let me keep quoting, I am all fqr women taking up technical pro~
fessions: Indeed any profession excepting
only Mrs 'Vanen's,'
We asked him about his hobbies and other
interests. He remarked that multiplicatbn
seemed to be the national pastime-of course>
he doesn't go in for that kind of thing,
having been a bachelo_r all his life. He also
mentioned very, very casually-don't miss
this, dear old Ripley-that he had been a
boxer in his youth. He loves listening to
music, usually of the classical variety, and
'inoffensive modern music' for a change.
He admitted that he couldn't bear most of
the latest pop music, since it constituted 'an
assault on the senses '.
'Do you sing, sir? At least in the
bathroom ?'
I Why blith~room, my dear chap-I often do
it in publi_~.'
Entertainment Committee please take notea few years ago Dr Swaminathan's version of
a Hindi film song brought the house down:
that too, at Pilany of all places! His accent
may not he, well, $Imd/~> but heck, it's the
spirit which counts.
It nearing the hour of noon, we prepared
to make a move, pausing only to ask him if
he Was in the habit of reading Campastimes.
He told us frankly that lately he hadn't been
up to it. 'Thank God I' sez we and ourlawyers.
-RAT

