Summer, 1969-]

CAMPASTtMES

ON THE VERGE OF HOPE
JOU1'1ley into the ear of a deaf

girl

_________w_ ••___._,_____________________,
There are people who decisively claim that
by and large the world is a dull place and
ordinary existence humdrum: nothing ever
seems to happen. Yet waf is being waged
and battles are raging, being won and lost;
right at, one's doorstep. The Vietnam, Suez
and Kashmir conflicts may come and go, but
on the vast front of science, hunger, illness,
poverty and suffering, the struggle is ceaseless
and unrelenting. Here there are no breaks,
no truces Of cease~fires, and no mercy. Victory
means existence and defeat means death in
one form or another: there is 110 compromise.
Who are the people who fight and mastermind
these daily battles, who are the victims, what
is the enemy, and where is the front? To
appreciate these questions, we look in blow by
blow, on a small encounter that ·took place on
the medical front: it is nothing unusual ot·
glamorous, but nevertheless it is a battle whose
outcome means a lot to the victim.

The Victim
A young woman. Fate had chosen to afflict
her with an almost complete loss of hearing.
Audiograms indicated that the sound level that
would be painful to the normal human ear
could be just heard by this woman. Whether
this woman's hearing could be restored would
depend on the outcome of the battle between
the skill of the surgeon and his scientific aides
and fate (for want of a better word to describe
the enemy).
Preliminary reconnaissance and
description of the arena
The surgeon bases his plans on the informa:.
tion given by the audiograms which are nothing but a record of the sound intensity and the
patient'S response to it. One audiogram is
taken by holding the probe against the bony
region near the ear. This shows a normal
response. Another audiogram is taken with
the patient trying to hear the sound. This
shows an almost total lack of hearing. The
surgeon then delves into the past histofY of
the patient. It seems that she had a tubercule
tumeur, removed and had been given heavy
doses of a drug' which is known to be bad for
the ear in large amounts. On the basis of
this and other information the surgeon
diagnosed that the lack of hearing is beCa1.1Se
of a growth on the stapes: a small bone in
the middle ear.
Sound consists of pressure fluctuations in
the air. These fluctuations cause the eardrum
to vibrate. These vibrations are transmitted
by a set of three delicate bones (of which the
stapes is one) mechanically linked to the "inner
ear from where they are finally sent to the
brain via the auditory nerve and perceived as
sound. Thus a growth on the stapes, which
forms a vital link in the auditory chain, means
a virtual loss of hearing, because the mechanism cannot vibrate freely.
The surgeon decides that a bold operation
is ,necessary to restore tIle hearing of the poor
woman. It would consist of going past the
c!lrdrum and into the middle ear, where these
bones are situated. The bone with the growth
would then be cut and replaced by a Teflon
(plastic material) link. It was hoped that this
would permit the mechanism to transmit
sound vibrations once again.
Instruments and Operational Plan
The p)an was to cut around the eardrum
and go into the middle ear. The stapes is
the bone that is the final link in the hearing
chain. It rests directly over the oval window
which is an entrance to the inner ear. The
bottom part of the stapes that rests on this
oval window is called the foot plate. It was
proposed to cut the stapes at its base on ~he
foot plate. Then to· drill a hole on the fObt
plate till the inner ear was exposed and insert
the Teflon link into the hole, connect the
1inkage as before and then close the ear.
The whole operation is done looking through
a {OX microscope because everything is so
small. A vacuum suction apparatus removes
all unwanted matter, and a micro-drill is used
:3

to make the hole. Delicate shears (for cutting
bone) and scalpels make up all the rest of the
equipment.

The operation
The battle is about to begin. We follow the
surgeon into the theatre to see how it develops.
The action is viewed through a viewing scope
uttached to the main micro-scope.
10.55 a.tn. The surgeon is washing his
hands in the ante-room and getting gowned up
for the operation. The patient is on· the
operating table, drugged. She lies on her
side completely covered by a white sheet,
except for the ear to be treated. The nurse is
standing by the rows of instruments stacked
neatly in the tray and one can hear the gentle
whir of the vacuum apparatus ill operation.
The atmosphere is calm with a slight
undercurrent of tension. All present (except
me!) are seasoned warriors, ready to match
their wits and skills against what may come.
The surgeon walks in.
I I .00 a.m. The surgeon switches on the
microscope and peers into the car. It is
brightly illuminated and we can see well
into it: the drum gives off a silvery gleam
and we see small amounts of ear wax
scattered around .. the ear has alreadv been
cleaned. A syringe fun of local anre;thetics
is taken and injected in several spots inside
the ear. We see blood spurt around the needle
but the patient is heavily drugged and does
110t feel a thing or show any sign of pain.
0
II.OS a.m. 'We begin with a bold 180
incision 6 mm. above the eardrum', says
the surgeon calmly as the scalpel deliberately
makes the opening incision. He proposes to
expose the middle ear by cutting above the
eardrum and folding the skin back. This
leaves the delicate eardrum untouched. The
opening incision is very important and the
surgeon works with great concentration probing and cutting away in a gentle but
deliberate manner.
[1-10 a.m. There! the flap of skin folds
back to reveal the middle ear. It looks an
angry dull red in colour. V'le cannot get a
good view because of a projecting bony
part of the skull. 'A part of this bone has
to be chipped away till we can get a better
view,' says the surgeon.
1I-13 a.m. The bone has been sufficiently
chipped. Now we really get a good look at
the middle cal'. We scc the bones and some
nerves right in front of us. • So far so good! '
Now we probe our way gently towards the
stapes making a brief stoppage to place aside
a facial nerve. This nerve controls the sensation of taste and the surgeon pauses to point
out that it is worthwhile taking the extra
trouble of moving the nerve to one side rather
than cutting it. 1£ cut, the nerve 011 the
other side would have to do the functions
performed by this nerve, and the woman
would partly lose hel' ability to taste.
Finally, there it is. We can see the foot
plate uncovered along with the stapes. On it
we see that there is a mass of growth which
is preventing free movement of the bones.
The surgeo'n demonstrates this by catching
the bone (using the instruments, of course)
and shaking it. It doesn't seem to move
freely. In a neat clip the stapes is broken
and deftly removed. We examine it but find
some difficulty because it is so small.
Now comes the most delicate part of the
operation. Drilling the hole. The drilling
has to be just right. If we penetrate too
much into the inner ear we would cause
permanent damage. If too little, the teflon
link may be displaced easily.
II-ZO a.m. AU this while there has been a
little bleeding from the cut tissues. We have

9
been periodicaJIy inserting wads of gelform
which inhibits bleeding and finally dissolves
away, leaving nothing behind as would be the
case with cotton. We now take a short
break to adjust the microdrill and select the
drill bit.
•
1I~2S a.m. ,The surgeon has cleaned up
the area where he has to drill. Drilling begins. The surgeon concentrates absolutely
on his task. We drill to ]'emove the ~plinter
left behind when the stapes was cut.
lI-3 0 a.m. StilI deming. Finally the splinter is separated. We are lifting it out; gentle
pressure has to be applied and we must. be
very careful indeed. 'No point yanking
everything ?ut I' says the surgeon. Oops,
the bone shpped and fell back, but we got it
again and now it's out. We keep drilliug;
?arefully now. A small hole appears. Behind
It we can see the yellowish fluid of the inner
ear. Well, this ~s our first look into the
inner ear and that's about aU we'll see ...
can't afford to fool around here for fear of
permanent damage.
I 1-35 a.m. The hole is enlarged slowly
and gently.
11-40 a.m. Still carefully enlarging the
hole. Can see well into the inner ear. • I
think that's enough' the surgeon remarks.
• We'll now cut the Teflon link to sj~e'.
There is a significant amount of bleeding'
cannot proceed till it has stopped. So we put
in some morc gelfnrm. And wait.
11-45 a.tn. Trouble. Skin that had been
rolled back loosens and faUs in. Got to push
it back. More blood. • Must have cut a
small blood vessel' the surgeon remarks
'
, this is a nuisance' .
u-s,? a.m. Still more blood. :rhe surgeon
~ool1y ms:rts mo:e gelform. Slight ir.crcase
m the stram at thls unexpected turn of events.
Still waiting for the flow of blood to slow
down.
12~'O0 110011. Look at our watches in sur~
prise. One hOtlr is up. At last the bleeding
eases off; the length of the piston required is
measured. It.turns out to be roughly 4 mm.
12-05 p.111. Th.e piston is cut and trimmed
to size with a small tool by the Nurse. The
surgeon puts it in place and gives the bones
a shake to ensure free movement. vVe prepare for a with.drawal now.
12-07 p.m. Replacing the facial nerve so
carefully put ,aside earlier. 'Oh, Oh' the
surgeon says, 'all that blood has formed a
clot It mtlst be removed or it will ruin
everything later' . We pull out the clot
gently. It's a dark, angry looking ugly mass.
We replace all the oth.er things we had pushed
aside.
12-10 p.m. Well we're back. We replace
the eardrum and the flap of skill. The
surgeon permits himself to hum a few bars
of a popular song as he places gauze over the
incision. Beads of perspiration show on -his
forehead; there had been Some anxious
moments.
12-15 p.m. It's over. The sUl'geon signals
to the nurse and moves away from the table.
The nurse supervises the transfer of the
patient to the post-operative room.
12-20 p.m. We walk into the changing
room, The surgeon is again his usual brisk
self. A difficult job has been done. Perhaps
another battle wOn.
12-z5 p.m. We walk out of the operating
theatre into the patient's room. 'What are
the chances 'of success?' we ask. • About
90%,' says the Doc, cheerfully, 'the other
10% accounts for relapses we can't prevent;
in which case we may try again.'
12-35 p.m. We walk into the patient's
room. She is still drowsy. The Doc. asks
her in a loud cheerful voice how she is feeling. 'Much better' comes the sleepy reply.
We walk out knowing another battle has
been won.
, When one is deaf it means a lot to regain
one's hearing' remarks the surgeon quietly as
we part, 'I am glad we succeeded.'
-UMESH D4'I'TA.

WE

thank the following for instituting ten more trophies this year for the variolls games:
Mrs Ramachandran. Prof Sethunathan, Prof N. K. Dutta, Dr J. C. Kuriacose, Dr Butenuth.
and the Film Club, Institute Gymkhana.

-CamPCl$times.

