{Summer, 1969

-_._--------------------

By the Way
Higgledy-Piggledy
1'. V. the trumpeter
UII!orttmately hll!J
Caught pJeurisy
'Ed Calf/ert wOldd lUlfJe bem
Rui"ed but 1 ca" keep
Blou.>ing 11Ii1ll1' says he-that's
Veracity.

EDITORIAL
The seniors who graduate this year will
leave behind an institute that is very different
from the one which they entered. This
change that we can all notice is the essence of
progress-if, indeed, it is made in the right
direction. We need only look back at the
events and features behind us to be reassured
that we are destined well in academic and extra
curricular activities. While the former requires the individual's concern, the latter
demands interaction and integration among
the entire student body. Noticeably, there h~s
been a strong inclination towards sports thIs
year. Far from arriving promptly for tea
alone, the crowd started pouring in before the
events started on the Annual Sports Day.
The athletes kept up their sides of the show
well. We congratulate the freshman who
showed outstanding merit in many events.
While reflecting on sports, what comes to
mind at once is the exit of the institute's ace
basketball team. AU its members will
graduate this year. This will be a severt. blow.
A deeper examination reveals that the final
year students dominated the courts. Freshmen and budding basket baggers were not
allowed to mix on the courts with the veterans ~ because their meticulously planne~
teamwork would be spoilt. The net result IS
that we will have to start the laborious process
of forming a fresh team. All t~is I.eads to ~he
same conclusion: that co-operatIon IS essentIal.

*

*

Olio

Misunderstandings have arisen regardi!1g
the function of the editorial. It cannot by Its
nature be the debated consensus of a large
group. It is an attempt at a fair, unprejudiced impartial view but nevertheless the
view of one person ~orking with a small
group, Its purpose is to keep the readers
informed, and its ideal is the good .of the
Institute at large. Where we are obhged to
detract, we do so for the public good. Where
we criticise, we criticise ourselves as a part
of the set-up, as much as we critici.se t~e
immediate object. To interpret what IS satd
here as an attack by one committe~ upon
another would be to take the narrow VIew.
An Editor's writing is addressed to t.he
publi~ which is directly dependent upon hIm
for its knowledge of affairs around. The
Editor is careful, accurate and unbiassed. He
takes the trouble to develop a sufficient background of information 80 that ~is thinking ~s
thoroughly enlightened, and If the pubhc
welfare is his object, he can rest assured he
is performing his duty.. The average reader
does not have the time to unravel the complexities of day-to-day eyents. Editors ~ke
up this job. The Editonal usually con~ams
a brief explanation of a current event or sItuation and the writer's interpretation and
appraisal of it. The Editor, whose duty is ~o
serve the community, is free to add hiS
editorial we ' interpretation.
Campastimes has· its code of ethics:
(1) It stays within the bounds of decency
-no foul language is used.
(z) The Editor reports the truth and the
Whole truth.
(3) It seeks to build. its cOIl!m.u?~ty.
A newspaper has the nght to Ctlt1cl~e, provided the criticism is fair. All pubhc officials acts, institutions, candidates for public
offic~ and books are open to Editorial examination and criticism. The Editor is privileged to make derogatory statements based on
facts. He has a right to step in and. expos~ a
situation to the public-accurately, Impartially, and void of unfair comments.

...

...

Working fur Campasti11lBS has provided rich·
experience this year. We are pleased to note
that 'Sri P. C. Venkatachalam will take over as
Editor next year.

Higgledy-Piggledy
fIT's theatre foUu
Rely OIl ll1"AD's fO)· their
Playlets (so sick).
'Calise they believe that Rr,y'r
Gastrollomical/y
Developed torso will
Sure do the trich.
IIigg[qdy-P[ggledy
ACID of 111'
Terrify yOUllg 'um alld
Glle ml/st have heard :
Reaso# behind it is
11lcolltro'IJertib/v
Dnl11uller-boy'; mane aud the
Lead-singer's beard.
Higgledy-Piggledy
Bllatla the pugilist
Had Jzis sharp llose caved itl
During a figllt.
After vail, surgeries
He fights OIl tirelessly
Hopiug tltat black eyes would
Set him alright.
I1lgg/edY-Plggledy
S. Parameshwaran,
Ullweary kllow-it-all,
Wellt to a quiz.
A,lswers elaborate
Jif/o/lhim the trophy but
Qrtiz master (oas ailing
From 1IeUr()sis.
N. KAf.YANARAMl..:N

H.V.R. IENGAR
Born in Mysore on 2.3rdAugust, 1902.
Educated at the Central College,
Bangalore, and Oxford University.
Joined Royal Institute of Science,
Bangalore, as Lecturer at the age of 19.
Qualified for I.C.S. 1924 and went
on to Oxford University.
Early years in I.C.S. spent in the
districts.
Posted to Bombay Secretariat in 1931.
Dy. Secretary in the Finance Department in 1937, then Finance Secretary
at age of 35. till 1942.
1942.-Home Secretary during Quit
India Movement.
Moved to Delhi in 1944 and shortly before transfer of power became Secretary to the Ministry of Planning and
Development, then Secretary to the
Constituent Assembly, and Principal
Private Secretary to the Prime
Minister, Shri Jawaharlal Nehru.
Home SecretarY-1948; Secretary to
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
1952. In 1956 was appointed Chairman of the State Bank of India. In
March 1957 he took over as Governor
of the Reserve Bank, a position he
held for five years.
Was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in
1962 •
Joined the Board of E.I.D. Parry
Limited and assumed office as Chairman
in May 1962.
Hobbies: Tennis and Golf.

We record with great SQ1\r9w
the demise of Kolluri Ram
Sharma! May his soul rest 'in
peace.

There have been p1e11ty of interesting goingson in the campus during the last month. The
most striking of these, by its magnitude and
duration, was the Cultural Week. So far as
the record goes, it was a complete and
triumphant success; but a few of us old-timers
had our niggling doubts. There seemed to
be a bitter conflict in the innermost precincts
of the Gymkhana. At a crucial time, it killed
the easy cameraderie at which we usually aim.
The motion for the debate was open to everything save debate, a fact of which the participants took full advantage. The group discussion brought forth some excellent teams. The
home team's performance in particular was
delightful. The audience was unfairly eliminated from the quiz, where it had long
established itself as the top scorer. About
the entertainment, the less said the better.
The measured half-hours not once but twice
n year (that other horror, the inter-hostel)
have become unbearably dreary. This time
interval, plus the demand for variety, plus
the taste of the IITian audience, effectively
eliminate all attempt~ at quality. This leaves
a few half-hearted skits, dances with more
energy than gt·nce, and songs which appear
to aim at noise rather than melody. There
are exceptions, of course, but they are rare.
The entire performance Jtas become perfunct01"y, But it seems to be what the
audience wants, and that is that. I would
suggest, however, that colleges which see fit
to shout obscenities from the stage be summarily disqualified.
I have said before, and I will say again,
that we lleed an auditorium. Perl;aps the
restiveness observed at the debate and group
discussion would subside in a larger and more
spacious hall. As a plea for an auditorium,
this is ridiculously inadequate, but it would
only be one of the numerous benefits. There
are any number of meetings or events fot"
which the Central Lecture Theatre is too
smaH, and OAT too large. And what, while
we are on the subject, we shall do when it
rains on Convocation Day, as it is bound t(}
do sooner or later, remains to be seen.
With the onset; of summer. OUL· activities
have been curbed and our energy sapped by
the fierce heat; but not those of the
mosquitoes. I do not remember any SUcl1
trouble in the last few years, but this year the
loathsome insects have become a perfect
plague. When you are trying to study, the
distraction of a dozen mosquitoes putting in a
nippy bit of work around the ankles is considerable. Any action in this regard will be
greatly appreciated by all desperate beings
now resorting to mosquito nets and Odomos.
Among recent innovati.ons was the restriction of film club shows to members only.
This has been discussed off and on for several
years, and I admit I took a dim view of it.
In practice. however, the step has proved
highly successful. Due acclaim must be given
to the gentlemen who put the decision through.
and acted upon it so efficiently. The entrances
are unobtrusively supervised. Best of all,
gone are the days when arriving just as the
lights flickered off, you found a place way out
one side, from "lhere you enjoyed the movie
in oblique perspective.
To have or not to have-the Hostel Day.
that was the question. Like. the man who
panted after cooling streams like a hart whel1
heated in the chase (or something like that),
there were some who yearned for the bright
lights and music, and the dinner for six
hundred. After some controversial exchanges
and a few verbal skirmishes, the ayes carried
the day in some hostels, and the nays in
others. 1 am all for democracy, but I feel
there should be uniformity in these decisions.
One evening not very long ago the moon
was at the full. I t rose crimson, and gradually
paled to gold. There it hung, low in the
velvet sky, like a huge Chinese lantern. The·
air was warm and heavy, the stars Were dim~
and the moonlight fell over the place like a·
lambent cloak of silver. There was an unreal
quality about the night, so flawless was its.
perfection.

• No thought had 1
Save that the 111001' was fair,
A1Zd lair the sky,
And God 'was everywhere.'
-So PARAMESHWAHAN"

