Summer, (969)

got carded away and failed to see the subtle
limit where fun ends and unpleasantness
begins. It would indeed be much more fun
if werybody enjoyed themselves.

1 wonder how :many people outside IIT
celebrate Holi. Not many, I'm sure. Even
the few who do, will certainly not match usquantity aud quality wise. It was sheel' fun
at the hostels. The hostel ponds, for insta~ce,
had more vi$itors than tlte average girls'
.
college during the visiting dl!-Y'
The clever guys got up early and got tnto
clotnes long neglected as tmfit for human use.
Then each of them smelling like a cavalry
after the morning's exercise. they trooped into
tne mes~ fot breakfast. Some gu-ys just lmv6
to be different. I woke up late and went down
for breakfast in my usual mufti. I had
planned to slip into my room aftet breaker
and spend the day pretending that I wasn't
there. Breaker over, I was headed for my
room to execute the plan. whieh at that
moment I thought only a genius could have
hatched. So far so good.
Then at the other end of the corridor I saw
a gang of revellers who were looking mighty
mean-and I'm giving them the breaks w~en
I say that. They saw me too, what with
Newton's third law and all that. The chatm~
jn~ group consisted of a lot of green men and
a few of the red "ariety. A few 1D the true
spirit of democracy had equally of both
colours. I couldn't recognize any of them.
Yelling and shouting 1ilte Injuns from an
Italian western they set off at a ~rot t~,,:a~ds
me r imagine that they were saymg. FIOlSh
off 'um paleface' or something on those Hnes.
I however didn't wait for a translation and
took. off !ike 1. bird up the staircase. Destination; my room. The onlytime I ran faster was
when a group of sadists who wanted ~o thr!'w
me into the plmd after the group dlScuss~on
competition were upon my heels. I was domg
a steady 65 but the green men whose clothe
were selected for just this sort of thing were
doing 80. What's more, I was wearing my
mund« that morning. 'fhat's the worst
of these 1fmlldlls-they are the thillg for lounging comfortably, but as a,n auir; to sp?rt when
one is trying to exhibtt one s agility, they
donit finish in the first ten.
Cutting further preamble, the, green men
were on me in no time at aU. Wtthout much
further ado I was initiated into their tribe:
A few moments later the red men whose forte
was stability, not speed came up and the
wh.ole thing was repeated. I felt hke a world
citizen. Then they all cheered and yelled,
, Noli ltai' -as if I didn't know.
.
A lot of hugging and mushy weHwwlshes
later I headed for my room. I shot the ~olt
and prepared to last th.e rest of tht: mommg
indoors, as the ducking ceremonies at the pond
were being warmed up around then. . '
There was peace for maybe ten minutes.
Then the door of my palace caught a few
juicy ones from some fellows who had
dropped in to wish me all the best as they
called it. Always of a suspicious nature, I
asked them what exactly they wanted and
they yelled back, <IIoIi hai '-:-jus~ in case tIie
others had forgotten to mentlO~ It and I was
being kept in the dark about It. I opened
the (loor. As it happened, 1 had picked the
wrong moment to do so. One of the chaJ(s
had aimed a powerful kick that had all hIS
heart and soul in it at my door. You should
have Seen the way he entered my roon;.
Tlirow in a couple of 1l1usicialls with shehnsts
and tablas and it was Jhanak Jha1ltll~ Payal
Eaaje aU over again-complete Wl~b. eol(lur
flying all around the room and effects on
those lines.
.
So, like 1 said, it was. great. fun l!l the
hostels However <l little bud whispers In my
ear th~t all was not well outside.. Maybe it
was the mob spitlt or perhaps lt was the
&pirit of revelrYt but it seems that a few chaps

4

II

CAM?ASi'MES

There are people altd people bcre at the
campus, and so, on allY issue we can expect
miUlons of viewpoints, right? Wrong. On one
issue they are aU agreed on. They all feel lousy
being called I inmates'. There ate umpteen
notifications from various qua:f1:ers asking the
inmates of this hostel to do this and the inmates of that hostel to do that and t!rat
~ertainly makes one feel lousy. I'm with
them all the way. It is not that these chaps
are all sticklers for details and go for formalities in a big way. Why, some of the
endearing greetings eXChanged in the hostels
aren'c in the dictionary and won't be for
some time to come. But even they don't dig
this 'jnmate' bit being splashed allover the
notice boards. It certainly does have a SingSing ring. So why not switch over to
'Ladies' and.' Gentlemen'? Surely the
notices that go, • Will the ladies of Sarayu
Hostel who want to participate in the enter~
tainment please repol.'t to the OAT', or
, The following gentlemen of Kaveri are
requested to meet their Professors in connection with their lack of attendance at l.ectures·
sound better than when • inmates' are used.
Change over to Ladies and Gentlemen
today . • • . you'll be glad you did!
The Doldinger Jazz Quartet, which visited
the Institute was a hit-even with people who
didn't dig jazz. As a matter of matter {If fact
it was a htt even with the people who didn't
dig music I For I was sitting next to a couple
of guys who hadn't even got their fundas
straightened out. I'm not blaming themwho knows, in a decade or so they may turn
out to be Dave Btnbecks in their own right.
I'm just using them to illustrate my point.
Like, one of them thought that the 'guitarist'
in the group had a marked inferiority com~
plex because he was carrying such a big guitar.
I was in two minds about telling him that it
was a guitar that had taken the Charles Atlas
course but then I didn't want to rub it in
that I kne'\V what a double bass was. The
other chappie thought that the music was hot
too, mainly because of the 'trumpet t player.
The instrument was actually a saxaphone.
That's when I gave up-I mean, if a chap
can't recognize sax when he sees it, his
education hasn't even begun.
That was around the time the intruder
struck I lIe was first seen talking to the drum~
mer who passed him on to the saxaphonist who
probably told the fellow that he understood
only German and English an~ asked him to
announce what he wanted htmself. So he
came up with, • Just please to excuse me,
saar. I want speak Mr. Koteswara Rao',
The Entertainment Secretary, who was dl'ow~
sing in a corner thinking that God was in His
Heaven and all's right with the world woke
up from his reverie with a start. Thou8,h
not a jazz enthusiast he knew enough mUSiC
to realize that wh.at h.e had heard couldn't
have been the part of any jazz composition.
Turning instant bouncer he turned up to do
his bit. 'you, ...• ', h.e was perhaps ch()ked
with emotion lllld anger at seeing at dose
quarters the man who was trying to wrec,k
his function. The intruder thought that lt
was all emotional, reunioll with his Io'ng loSt
Itoteswara Rao. That is till the secretary
grabbed him by his collar and marched him
off the stage towards the glorious sunf\.et.
I wonder what they did to him-perhaps he
was shot at dawn.

*

•

•

The Sports Day had a lot of pep this year.
Usually the track officials, particip~nts an~
the chief guest carryon an excluslYe .afialI
till around 4- p.m. when the. mob moves 10 for
tea, at the stadium. All that has . ~h~nged
this year. Maybe it's the < hostel spmt that
call now be expected, as one isn't going to be
shunted around from hostel to hostel from
this year onwatds, Dr maybe it's because of
the hectic publicity meted out to the Meet.
The equistrian show was ~ood. It was a
noyd idea and all novel ldeas are good.
Tapti hostel did her bit for n()~el id~a$ too.
They were sure of the championshIp even

SHRESTHA: SYM8.0L O.F
INDO-NEPALESE BOND
Amongst our less vociferous and more
friendly neighbours is a country that passes
for just so much of a dot on .tlle world map:
Nepal. It's quite a beautiful dot, too, with
all those snow-capped mountains, lush v::I.lleys
and breathtaking panorama.
ALong with the standard high-altitude recipe tor grandeur, Kathmandu the capital also
has two houses made of bricks-one belongs
to King Mahendra~ and the other to Uttam
Narayan Shrestha.
Shrestha is here in lIT as part of the
Colombo Plan. You must have heard of it.
Nice Plan; it helps developing nations deve~
lop. Ofcourse, when India can afford to be
magnanimous in its gesture towards a develop"
ing country, you can imagine what a lot of
developing that coul1try has got ahead of it.
When Sfue&tha first came to India, he was
surptised to find bicycles with both wh.eels of
the same diameter 1
We have all heard of people with a soft spot
for Chinese cuisine. .But Picking up stray
worms and insects from the hostel quadrangle
and frying them in the room is perhaps carrying things a bit too far. Shrestha d()es not
seem to think so, and matters have reached 11
stage where even'a walllizlIrd thinks two times
before it steps into his room.
Word got around in Nepal (this kind of news
travels fast) that Shl'estha was the onl:yNepa1i
in one of the hottest Institutes in India. So
very soon a group of gooey eyed youngsters
from the only ,university in Nepal made a
pilgrimage to IIT and drafted him in as
their guru and guide. When a force of about
ten adoring females and an equal number of
hero-worshipping boys from mo.ck home look
up to you for guidance, you don't shoo them
away (lr ask them to go climb the nearest telephone pole. You rise to the occasion. You
let your abundance of Imperior knowledge
and experience shine upon them. And that is
precisely what he did.
As a starter he led them to the mess and explained to them the wonders of instant
communication-the telepnone. On tne way
out he demonstrated the smooth flow of water
within a continuous flow arrangement popularly known as a tap .. Then onto the common
room wh.ere he outlined the intricacies of a
radio set and record playet'.
The group went home dazzled and awe~struck
by Shrestha's seemingly limitless fund of
knowledge. Word of his brilliance and hos~
pitality &pread like wild fire. Tod.ay, his
phone number and address are sta.ndard
equipment for any Nepali tourist in India.
It's given to them by th.e Indian Embassy in
Nepal along with their pel mit to enter India.
When he goes back to Nepal this summer)
with. a brand new B. Tech. degree in tow,
he will have the singular distinction of being
Nepal's first engineer..
. .
,
His one disappointment 1n hfe IS that he w111
never be able to pull his country out of the
Dakota Age and into the Jet Age. Because
you See to construct an air strip for a jet,
you need at least half a mile of fi~.t c0ll;ll.try,
Al\d if yo\.\ proceed to make half a. mlle of
mountain~tops flat in Nepal, you pass lUto the
next country and cause a border incidence. ,
Anyway, what's wrong with a Dakota] It 5
far better than a )1~'k.
-ARVIND JOlIAl1.I.

before the meet ar.d so they turned up in tl

gaily coloured bullock cart to collect the
trophy. What really impressed was the pre~
dsion with which the cart drove up to collect
the prize after the announcement, It was
sheer bedlam after that in th.e stadium-sort
of resembled the scenes from the vernacular
movies where the hero rescues the heroine
from the forced 'Wf!dding. The cart with the
trophies were taken. around to ~ach host~l
with motorcycle outndets and thIngs. It lS
always the out~of-the~ol'dinary~behaviour that
has marked the IlTian some of humout.
Hooray! !

*

..

..

Farewell, then,' tln thi~ the seventeenth day
of April of the year of the Lord, from
-001':8.

