12
-------~---

...........

---.

---.

....----~----- ..---..........-----...

Letters to the Editor

Dcar Editor,
I was agreeably surprised to receive a copy
of the February issue of Call1pastimes. The
standard is really high, and the presentation
very exhilarating. I feel younger after reading the same. I wish your newspaper all the
best".

1969

IITians Discuss •••• (Colltilllled /1'0111
page olle)
language-that is if a new Hindi term is to be
found for every "Scientific term in English.
It, w~s suggeste~". that most of the existing
SCIentIfic terms in English could be retained
and only the text translated; but then this
would only be like mitigating an infinitely
large problem by a finite degree.

KUDOS!
Dear Editor,
Recently I came across Cantpartimes-my
friend sent me the February issue. I couldn't
resist writing to you and expressing my appreciation. I thoroughly enjoyed reading about
Rathindra N. Roy and Mandip Singh. If
guys who knew them enjoyed reading about
them, I enjoyed reading the caricatures
because I kept imagining how the two charac~
terl! would be. Screwy and the three possi~
bilities provided good reading. • A period of
adjustment' is the article I liit(;'.d best. Con~
grats Mr Editor. I hope my friend keeps
sending me Campastimes so that I may pass
time with some campus humour.
R. SRlHDlIR
Bombay.

t Summer,

CAMPASTIMES

------.

Dear Ed.,
If I had a hacksaw, I'd prove it. Far from
being solid ivory from frontal bone to occiput,
your mit is a hairy mess of cobweb's with
a few spiders thrown in for kicks, I daresay.
How else could you explain the mouldy
cOllcoction of gibberish you serve" up every
time? Spiders, man! Tnat's what you've
got on your brain !
-GNAN.

S. C. MISRA.
C. 111. E., I. C. F., Madras.

ANTI KUDOS

THEM SIDE REELS

Dear Editor,
Your issue i very big-made a luxurious
doormat.
What's the use?
A mag.
Is supposed to be read.
Could'nt read it. Because
There was too much nonsense.
Trim it.
Ditch the junk and the gas and the tripe.
There'll be very little left,
Never mind.
It will be good stuff.
Yours,

Denr Sir:
I have been a mcmber of the Film Club
for a long time and as a rule enjoy the
'movies it screens immensely. However I am
pained to note that the news reels usually
shown before the main film havc of late become
pernicious propaganda. Some of them are
ludicrous and probably enjoyable, but I wish
they stopped short of insulting other nations
with which we would like to remain friendly.
Will something be done about it soon ?
Yoms etc.

C. S.

Vikram.

KRISHNAN

It was felt by a'11 present in the discussion
that n~ither was India prepared for such a
revolutlonary change in its academic set up
~or could she ever pull through the problem
If at all.such a solutIOn was attempted. People
who vlOlently opposed the imposition of
Hindi, or those up in the north who with
equal violence supported the switch over to
Hindi, comprised mainly of fanatics ,who did
110t think beyond the fact that their mother
tongue mu~t prevail and their language has
~ store of hterary wealth which just can't be
19nored at the whim of an irrational party.
The entire issue nceds to be intently viewed
dccpl:r tho~ght over, not only in the
lIght of national llltegralion but also in terms
o~ the future .re~uirements of a united world.
?ll1ce the majority of the democratic people
111 the world speak English, the best bet for
our country would be to adopt English as the
nation~l.1angLtage an~ avoid the future problem
of deCIdIng upon an tnternationallink language
I?oupled with English our people should b~
free to study allY of our 14 languages; for
that matter any of the numerous foreign
languages. If such a stand is taken why would
the Hindi speaking people ~bjcct ?-for
object thcJ' will, and with force.

a.nd

A good number w~ know will object on
grounds of false prestIge, t.hat is, we Indians
lUllst have a language of our own; why should
we adc.pt the language of our one time
unwanted .rulers, and so on. This protest is
obviously only emotional with little or no
rational content. ~igure lUi~ded would point
out. that by ~doptmg Engltsh 95% of the
II~dmn populatIon shall be suddenly confronted
WIth a totally new language, while a switch
over to Hindi w?uld similarly effect only a
percentage of 65. Well as these people put it
it is t~e either the frying pan or the fire
In reality a well planned scheme would never
cl~visagc a sudden switchover effecting any
of the two consequences mentioned. A
gradual introduction of the English language
III aU classes up to-say the 8th or 9th class in
school would start an era of transition. In
the Kindergarten classes English should
become a primary medium of teaching.
Under ,such. ,a. schemc, l~ years later, the
generatIOn JOlnIng the ulllversities all over
th.e country will?e of one tongue, and it
Will ~e able to enJoy the supreme privilege
of ?emg at home .Ill the company of any of
their contemporarIes throughout the country
and the large English speaking world. Greater
the literacy rate, faster will be the transition
and sooner will our goals be realized.
I

!

TZPERITERER
Dear eDilol',
As zou should be able to realise bz mow I am actuallz tipyng thias letter to

ZOll and as zou
.might also realise, i am rp just leming to tzpe and i havent lernt much. Actuallz i feel a tyrepriter
is a gret object and zou can get deadlz ettecfs from it ~ fore xampie:
t
d
T
s
M
R
n
.H
e
0
A
0
0
C
l'
i
M
R
n
nice, what? But thes txpewirter isnt alwazs cooperatingting with me, zou know , like for instance
everztime I xxxx tRz for a z I get a z .Blast I I mean everzmite i tIZ for a z igct a Y.No 1
know
Blast again r and again. Anzwaz zou/what i am trzing to saz. And as a l'eslut of such stupid
things happening tzpe comes out like type and suchlike crayz thin .things.So much for that.

Zou. can do other jayyz things too.Zou can play (Zeah •,I got the Y al tast Zeah! Zeah!
Zeah !Jil) tunes on this just like a piano.See· for instance this is abar of Allrpl followed bz a D
below middle

c~·-- &~: A#A#A# CC~CC

: n--simble, What? Now 1 lets h'y something

more sohpisticated ,say' Tchaikovsky's Nut-Cracker Suite :-.
& 4/4 i
C DDd BB C D A i
C DDd DB C D A

C#D C#D DD
Maestoso Dolce
and so on
Fortisimmo
Anzwaz I hope zou Ii ke it --- I Did I
And if zou search aroond zou ' III find a lot of very strange thingshappeninglikethiszouknow
everzthingsortofbuncheduplikeasetofguyswritingtheirexams. Man, this sonofamachinesrew SUl'e
d
oWn
has a lot of tricks. Sometimes tHdetteres jump uP and X

1!om e b at risque racontuer! Or if zou jest slightly finger this cuet looking key here, THEW
w
WHOLE contraption shoots off I 11111II iiiiikkkkkeeee e
tttttttthhhhhHHhhiiiiiIISSss! !
Gosh ,iti! certainly is "a nice thing to have a typreterer ,dont you think.? ITS a reallz jollz
thing to fidel atound with when yuo are feeling bored.
Yeah, ~hat remun~s me --~~for .one thing the bloke who owns thins thign will be co~i!l1g
.tound shqrtlz and zou bet I'll get something hot IFhe catches me, and for another I am feeelhimg
sleeeeepzzzzzzZZZZZZZ,
So then I
zours trulz,

xxxxx
mOronowskz.

Exhausting this aspect of our topic
Dr. Zuern steered the discussion on to yet
another grave problem facing the studentsfrustration. This, we were surprised to hear,
was a problem of the German students also'
particularly those in the fields of engineering
and technology. However, their frustration
springs from only one of the nUmerous causes
of OUr plight, viz: loss of hope of ever being
able to catch up with the phenomenonal
progress made by certain other countries in
certain ~pecialized .fields•. Both in Germany
and IndIa, aeronautIcal engllleers a.re overcome
with despair when they see the SST's being
developed and flown while they are still
grapHng with relatively much simpler problems
in producing subsonic aircrafts.
We Indian students expressed the view that,
at present, we te~hnologically lag behind the
a~vanced countnes by about 50 years, and
Sll1ce progress abroad is being made in the
computer and jet era, this gap will only
widen. How then could we ever hope to
catch up with the advanced countries?
Word~ of encouragement and. ,h.ope came
forth 10 abundance from our VISItIng guests.
They had been' touring various industries

