Summer, '1969 ]

CAMPASTIMES

like those in Cochin and NeyveIi, and they
were indeed impressed by our diligence and
aptitude'iI?- engineering. They feel that the
technological gap we speak of is being bridged
and not widened as 'we fear.
The conversation then turned towards the
goals of the Indian people and how indiv.idual
Indians fail to comprehend them. Our goals
are too idealistic for an individual to translate
in terms that would tell him how he must
go about attempting to realize them. A united
India, a peace loving India, more food and
less children. an India always marching forth,
are the sort of slogans every Indian hears,
while he should be hearing slogans like how
to use ammonium phosphate for high crop
yield, how to design a bridge, how to overhaul
a machine, etc. For these are the facts the
common roan can easily grasp and fruitfully
translate in his everyday work.
Even those who Can understand their
immediate goals, lack of opportunities to
realize tb.em is frustrating. And most of us
IITians suffer feom this; foe we know well
enough what is required and expected of us
but the thought 'Will we get an opportunity
to let us give what is wanted of us ?' keeps
worrying us.
There is plenty of scope for resourceful
engineers in small scale industries. Only
initiative and the spirit to take risks is
required.
From this the discussion turned on to the
general student unrest in Germany and India.
In both the countries political parties, it waS
said, had parts to play. Small communist
sects in Germany have frequently incited the
university students to effect disturbances. In
India, particularly in the universities of
Calcutta, Delhi, Banaras and Andhra Pradesh,
political parties perennially misuse their
influence on the students to achieve selfish
goals - - and these often come as protests
against the ruling party.
If only our political parties would quit
trying to fight one another and dedicate theit·
time and energy towards the solution of our
numerouS problems t One of the most de~
moralizing and disheartening experiences an
Indian could have is witnessing the Indian
Parliament in session. A volley of attacks
and counter-attacks are made 011 individuals,
parties and their policies. Nine out of attacks
tenbeing absolutely uncalled for ill the interests
of the nation. Dramatic walkouts, use of
unparliamentary language, thumpings of desks
and creating troubles to extents where the
disturbing elements must be bodily removed are not rare even in regular sessions of
the parliament. Do these happenings not make
an Indian's heart bleed? Anyone who loves
India would be pained to witness such a state of
affairs. The Multi-party aspect of a democratic
set-up is indeed one of the drawbacks of
democracy. Once the electorate has elected
a set of people to rule, it must give them
latitude enough to form policies and abide by
them without having each move of their's
strongly refuted by the rival groups and that
too for no just reason but with only a spirit
of 'show down '. And our constitution
demands that the ruling party defend itself
against all charges made by the opposition
irrespective of the absurdity of the accusations
and the waste of valuable time and money
involved.
By this time we had spoken for over 3 hrs.
It was interesting to observe how well our
German guests were informed on the Indian
state of affairs; particularly the student unrest
problem. It was encouraginl! 1:0 hear the
professors speak of the bright future of the
Indian people j£ they continued to fight their
problems with added vigour and zeal. Professor Brauer, Prof Panknin and Prof Ruge
spoke highly of our discussion. They went
even as far as to say that never before had
they met such a lively group of student') ! All this, we know, must be pure encouragement, for encouragement is one thing an
Indian student nel'ds most to boost his
confidence, not only in himself but also ill
his country and its five hundred million
l'eople.
-Campastimes.

13

THE YEAR OF.
In our institute the year is nearly always

one of something or the other. For the
, freshers ' it is a year of admission into an
institute of national importance, of introduc.
tion to the weekly horrors that go around
in the name of periodicals, of slogging in the
workshops, and of the inevitable and all-tooobvious 'average) grades. But what aboutthe
Academic Section, the Administrative Section
and the Engineering Section? They do not
have periodicals or progress reports. For the
academic section staff it is always a year of
playing musical chairs or idling away its time
ill the staff canteen or knick-knack. They
remind one of the Olympian Gods who revel
in hurling bolts out of the blue (in the form
of periodical notices) on us lesser mortals.
The Administration and Engineering Sections,
however have more variety.
Yeal' of Cycle Sta"ds: Three years back it
was the year of cycle stands. Cycle stands
were built in small clearances and near existing
buildings. These cycle stands were always
hidden in a dense growth of shrubbery.
Such a location discouraged to a large extent
the parking of bicycles in these stands. Students and staff who tried to do so felt like
G.I.S in the jungles of Vietnam. The rate
at which these cycle stands were built exceeded the rate of construction of buildings.
Cycle stands were built first and buildings
later rose in the vicinity. One mi~ht woncleF at some forlorn stands in Gutlandlsh places
in. the campus: the building;;; have not yet been
built.
Pel'severance PaVet Pathways: The next
year was the year of paving pathways. The
pathway 'leading to the Physics Department
used to be marshy and fltll of puddles
during the rains. This way was paved with
stones and mud was the cementing agent.
When the rains came, the way was worse than
before, with small islands of stone jutting out
here and thc:re from the marsh. Many
chappals got stuck in the mud and could not
be recovered. They will perhaps serve as
fossils or interesting specimens of study fOJ'
a future gcncl'ation of archaeologists. The
students said it was a futile attempt, but the
work went 01\. ''Vhen summer came Nature
joined forces with the pavers. Now they look
back in admiration at the pathway they have
paved which, ill their eyes, beggars a run way
for VCIO.
Year of TrenciJes: Returning from vacation
last year, we found small pill.boxes littered
around the joint. No one knew what they
were meant for. Some of us thought that it
was a year of pill-boxes. But We were disappointed, for the construction of these pill-

• • •

boxes stopped after the institute reopened.
The state of disappointment did riot last long.
One morning we found some feverish digging
going on along the hostel roads in front
of ESB and other vantage points. So it was
to be the year of digging trenches. Later the
year displayed a dual tendency. It was also.
the year of repairing exi::.ting buildings.
Departments vied with each other to.
repair parts of the building allotted tq them.
In. ESB new electrical wiring and' cable lay-,
jng was carried out, while in HSB the lecture
theatres were white-washed and renovated.
So far the most successful has been the
Mechanica~ ~ngineering Depat:tment. They
started bUlldtng a new storey on Qne wing.
VYhy only one wing? Perhaps that much lea4;l.
was enough at that time. SpeCial pains were
taken to put up sign boards that read WORK

IN PROGRESS ~ALK CAUTIOUSLY':
Soft treading and "'hisperi~g became the order
of the day. While the whole vibrated with
the banging upstairs, the App. Mech. Lab.
tutors told you not to touch the expt. set up
when taking readings, as tb.is would alter the,
dial gauge readings, No one knew where this.
mad race £or supremacy would end. But
the trenches have atleast partly cured the boys
of sleep walkitlg to *e classes ill the morning.
The Year of Exodus: This' exodic tendency started last year when the library mQved
from BSB into its own build~ng. :rhe ladies
hostcl shifted to a new bu.ilding. The subse-.
quent exodus that has taken place th!s year
reminds one of Biblical times. The drawing
section was shifted to MSB from HSB and
the Aeronautics Department moved. into. it!;.
new building. T,he Academic section, Administration section and the Engineering section moved into . the roiniskyscraper. The
staff is happy about the change, what with.
the grand view and the lift facilities. They
only hate the increased distance to the staff
canteen.
This is not the' only characteristic of this
year. This year is also the year of fixed
hostel allocation, or so they say. The film
club closed its gates to the Velacherians. The
corridor in which we have the Analog computer is being walled off; possibly another
Berlin walt to discourage curious students.
But these are merely additional characteristics.
As the year draws to all end we wonder
what they will think up next year. Already
an animated discussion is going on about
what the nel't year will be. But we can aU
rest assured that it will definitely be the yea.r
of? ? ? ?
K. N. PARTHASARATHY.

