CAMPASTIMES

[Summer, 1969

---------------------------- --------- ---_._--------_._._--DON'T BEG
DON·'T STEAL
JUST BORROW
.1\{0'l.v you can stop wOfrying and start living

SURVIVAL TECHNIQUES

. One'bit of ~dv~ce.to people who are eXI?ec~ing something light and funny. Pass over!
Turn the page! fhlS IS !lot for you. Nor IS It for people who are not ambitious. If you
.are one who feels and tlunks that he/she is a genius and that he/she is not being treated
properly, read oil, For, here, you will find some valuable hints to make people take notice of
you. Not ordinary l;leople, but special folks, the folks who decide your future----your
lecturers, tutors, lab attenders and such. Here you will find ways and means to influence
them and win them over with your charms.
I shall deal with every department separately. I will consider cvery aspect of your life.
Let me begin at your hostel.
In the hostel, you will need to influence three kinds of peoplt'. The\' are: (I) the
-attender, (2), the hostel UDC, (3), the mess staff.
.
! The attettdel;.-T~i~ is. quite simple. Usu!lIly, attenders s.Oloke. And they smoke
Charmmars. So an enterprlsmg mmate starts by offenng the attender fags---not Charminars
ljut Wills. (and that t~o, Ii.lter tipped).. This is sure to make the attender see the good nature
Inherent In you. If It fads, do not give up. Try the direct approach.
All the attenders try to speak in English. Their English is abominable, They know it
-and everybody. else knows it. They know that everybody else knows it. So if anybody praises
them for their mastery of the language, they are simply overwhelmed. Some suggestt:d
-comments: (I) 'Kalimuthu', (or whatever else his name is) 'Were you studying in any
-conven,t ~chool. before?' (2) , Kuppusami, are you an Anglo-Indian? '
I<:,l1lal pomt. Attenders ~l'e prone to. commit ~istakes like stamping 30th February '69
on the. lIbrary bo~ks.
removlllg new copies of Blttz, etc.. as 'yesterday's newspaper'. At
such t1llles, tact IS reqUired. For example, when you see the a.ttender stamping 30th or 31st
Fe!'ruary, on books, you should 110t tell him that he has made a stupid mistake. Better to
pomt to the calendar and say, 'These people have missed a couple of dates! '.
2. To pass onto the clerks.--it is quite easy to influence them. Periodic 103ns of five
Qr ten bucks are useful •. Also, when. they make slight mess bill mistakes (like adding up
9~
10,= 910) and. gIve you a bill for Rs. I,OH.88, mumble, • Foolish attender made a
mlsta~e I and ask hLm to cut the extra zero. Also comment on his typing. (' Wow, how
fast t etc.) These are well received.
3. .ll1ess staff.-Simple folks they are and simple it is to influence them. Ask them to
buy you a pack,of fags. F?rget to. take,the change. Better st~I1, give them a couple of fags.
Peo:ple WIth cycles wIll find It eaSIer. Mess staff appreciate folks who lend them bikes
to go t~ mght shows. Here again, money helps. Give them change for pumping up tyres.
They will. love you. And they will show it by giving you extra helpings of ice cream, etc.
(Qody~but1ders, please note!) Another point is this. When a server is serving you tell him
lO':ld1r' (so that the other servers and the supervisor can hear), • You. seem to be the ~llly good
.t
server here ! •
. Now for other fields. Let us take NCe. Here a Httle bit of exaggeration and physical
endeavour helps. Take' Unowho' for example. He arrives at 4-45 p.m. for a parade.
Naturally. UO Ven~atraman yens out. So our hero goes and salutes him. The ensuing
conversatIOn goes thIS way.
UO: You are not supposed to salute me.
Hero: Why, after all you are the big boss!
UO; No, no! You can salute only Major.
Hero: ~huck~! Anyway, you know more than the Major.
~o UO IS paCIfied. He says, 'Okay, do not come late next time.' The same thing- can
be applied to allY other man there. Other way~ .arc (I) praising the way they march, (2) praising
the way they send Morse messages. (3) praLsmg the way they teach in the 'technical classes',
and so on.
And now let us turn the spotligh.t on the Workshops.
For the freshen; :
the work IS done by you using primeval tools. So the result of
your labours wtll not be mce to look at. Here a little bit of help from the instructor would be
very welcome. How do you get it ?
This is how you get it. Go up to him and ask him to help you in finishing the model.
He will want:: reason. Yo~ provide it. Tell him that you do not get as good a finish as he
does. Tell hIm that you hke the way he finishes. Tell him anything that will make him feel
great. He usually ends up doing all your models· for you;
For tIle secolld yea,· guys.-You, my friends, are in advanced workshops. Here the
~~chine spoils your model. ~ou might try the freshers' approach to get your job done, but
It IS better to use the • comphcated terms' method.
.
. The p.roce~ure is .simple. You take your stanc~ neal' a big and complicated-looking
machme. ~all him (the Ll1structor) near you and ask hun about its working. Your questions
should be hke :
(a) • How does this thingummyjig operate that whateveritis ? •
(b) • That loony looking thing: what is it for, Sir?' and so Oil. He tells you that
this is called a universal sliding and surface cutting centre lathe and that is what is called
a 6t-34 cutting arbor, etc.
You let out a couple of wows and ask him, • How do you manage to remember all these
complicated technical terms, Sir?'
•
He smiles mysteriously. He is also happy as he has found (he thinks) another student
With a 24-carat heart.

0:

+

411

COMMON
(1) The s~udent is to fee! the tex~llre .of the outer crust of the workshopman. Then he
should look at It for a long tIme, a bit Wistfully. Then he should utter ill a very admiring
tone, 'What a nice Zee Shirt, Sir!'
This ';I)'[l~es them very hap~y. .<I?on't ask me why.}
(2) ThIS IS for guys who thmk It IS never too early to start. You have to do this on the
very first day you enter a shop.
All you've got to do is to mug up the name of the shop foreman. When the instructor
comes and takes your class, ask him (at the end of the class), • Sir! 'Scuse me, but is your
n~me •Mr. Joseph?' (or whatever be the ~oreman's Ilame.) He says it is not. Then you tell
hIm, I thought you were the foreman, SIr I Your lecture was that good! ' This delivers the
goods•
. (3) This is al!-0ther sin;'ple b~t effective method. Tell the guy you are from
Tnchur and are a sohd Malayah. If thiS doesn't work, nothing else willi
And now the various methods for making your academic life smoother.

(Continued

071

page IS i cols. 2-3)

~orrowing is an art, a gentle art; it requires.
patxence, perseverance and sometimes pursuit
of the person from whom you borrow. But it
reaches the supreme height whIm you • achieve
the maximum effect with the minimum expenditure of effort '. Nothing to do with
transcepdental meditation. It is somewhat
like this: Suppose you want some textbook
on a, prewperiodical night: Your neighbour
has It, but he too needs It. Go to his room
~"hen he is .not there. an~ simply' borrow •
It. . There LS. every hkel~hood of his getting
palUcky, putting up notLces, offering cokes
and aU that. Now, when you don't need the
book any longer, wait till the coast is clear
and slip it right back. Well what have you
achieved? The maximum effect: for (a) you
have thoroughly shaken up your poor neighw
bOllr, (b) you have read the book and in
returni~g. it, (c) ~atisfied your c~nscie~ce.
The mmlmum, effort; since you have saved
Y0!lrself the tIme ~or persuasion and your
neIghbour from ha,vmg to refuse it. That
in a sense is the supreme art.
'
From gum to graph sheets, from books to
blades, and batteries to buckets everything
comes in the borrowing range. 'Notice that
most of these things are not returned. Take
the case of the graph book you bought the
other day. By the time you reached your
hostel from the co-ops, half of it had been
swooped off. Without your having used a
single sheet, it was exhausted. Yet not a
single sheet had been returned. U nderH
standably, no person had borrowed more
t~an one sheet (at a time) and you feel a
httle embarrassed to demand an immediate
return. What is the solution for this? The
obvious one. Borrow from otheJ's for your
needs. Now a chain reaction has started and
it goes on endlessly-it is what is called a selfw
sustained reaction. Perhaps you have had
the amusing experience of borrowing a pencil
only to find that it actually belonged to YOtl~
The !irst person to borrow it from you had
lent It to s.omeone, he to someone else, until
after changmg a hundred hands it comes back
to you. This cyclic process is never a reversible ~ne;. what I mean is, changing of
hands gomg III the opposite direction till it
reached you from the first borrower is
impossible. It is a classic example of a unidirectional process.
But after all, is not this whole process of
cyclic borrowing a beautiful order of nature?
Think how dull life would be, if you kept to
yourself, never borrowing, never returning.
How could y?U have submitted your lab.
record. had It not been for the borrowed
lab. sheets, the borrowed graph sheets-and
the borr~wed readings ~ How could you, or r,
have WrLtten the .letter home last week had
we 110t horrowed the inland? Perhaps I can
take pride in the fact that you scored an S in
your tutorials i if I had not lent you some
paper, you could not have submitted it in
time. How can .you deny now that it is
borrowing and notl love that makes this crazy'
world go round ?
Oops, I am running out of paper. Could I
borrow some from you '1

V.

JAGADEESR.

