Summer. 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

----.---.-,-.--.. -.--,-.-.•

THE GENERAL SECRETARY
K.S.LOGANATHAN
It's not the easiest thing in the worldwriting a caricature. The dictionary defines
a caricature as a ludicrous exaggeration of
peculiar personal characteristics. So, in
order to be eligible for a caricature a chappie
must be abundant in peculiar personal chara~
cteristics and at least a few chaps must know
about them. I mean, you can't walk up to a
chap· and say, • Now look' ere Bud, let's have
the lowdown on your peculiar habits and
things because I'm doing a caricature on you
for Campastimes.' That would get you no·
where. The last time something like that
happened was at an M.R.A. meeting here.
One of those M.R.A. chaps a,ked one of us,
• You must have had a lot of experiences of
which you are ashamed; may I hear about the
worst of them aU' to which our man replies
• Sir, some years ago, I once wished that my
lecturer would have a headache so that we
may have a free hour I' It's so easy to pill
with a straight face.
Three days of research and whispered
questionnaires to Lok's pals revealed no
sexy stories. As a matter of fact the most
humourous· side of his life is that he is except·
ionally fond of coffee. Now that would
hardly be funny even in Brazil. You can't
expect fellows to split their sides reading that
some chappie is fond of coffee. I told the
Editor so. Then he suggested that we run a
sort of trailer of his biography-listing'
achievements and things. So I dropped in
on Loks recently. • Sit down,' I told him, like
chappies in the movies, • And teU me the
story of your life.'
Kesava Siva Loganathan, son of S. Ke1l.ava
Aiyer, was born in Madras on the first of
August, 1947. It's a pity, for if he had been
born just fourteen days later, he could have
gone around saying that his birthday was a
day of great rejoicing for the natives, who
were so overwhelmed that they set church
bells ringing all over the country, fired gun
salutes and sang songs in their homes.
Today Loks is an unmarried Indian male,
general health excellent; vision short sight,
corrected with glasses j and with no physical
abnormalities Or disorders.
His hobbies arc writing short stories,
reading books and seeing films. He attended
the Madras Christian College School,
Madras and the Madras Christian College,
Madras, before coming over to IIT. Back
in 1962-63 he was awarded the Parthasarathy
Iyengar Medal for good behaviour. That
must have started him on the road to becoming
a bad subject for a caricature.
Writing essays is his forte, for he has won
prizes from the S.P.C.A. and the Lion's Club
(International Peace Essay Contest, 1967). In
the N.C.C. he was a Cadet Petty Officer and
the best cadet of his group. That's the Worst
of these quiet chaps-they are good at
N.C.C.
Here at the Institute he participates in
debates and essay writing competitions. Last
year he was our Literary Secretary and this
year he has been elected to the highest
student office of this Institute-General
Secretaryship of the Institute Gymkhana. He
has done an excellent job there. He was
a member of the Institute team that participated at the mock U.N. General Assembly at
Stella Mar.is College earlier this year, .and is
an Editor of the Institute Gymkhana
Brochure, an annual publication to highlight
the student extra-curricular activities.
This then is the profile of the man who is at
the helm of student activities this year-a
quiet, unassuming gentleman.
-A Campastimss Report by Gope.

Dr (Mrs) I. Ziirn's Rolling Trophy
FOR

Best Lady Speaker
The Zurns have instituted a Rolling Tro~
phy for the best lady speaker in the AU India
Debate held annually during the Cultural
Week at IITM. 'She feels ladies deserve to
be encouraged more I' said Dr Zl.lrn.
-Campastimes News.

-.--~----

-

._ .._----. --.--

,15
---.---~~--

•
A hot wire
to the students' ear
One campus

house~vife>s tale of telephone numbers,
IITians, and Alakananda !

These days, student unrest has. become a fashion throughout the world. Newspapers are
full of reports etc. The elders are puzzled by it, completely unable to understand why these
angry young men are not satisfied with what their parents arc providing them. It may be a
question of generations, and-as I believe-these well-established middle-aged gentlemen apparently have left far behind them the heroic time of their own twenties and do not even see the
necessity of keeping their ears open to what the young people have to say.
Although here in IIT we never have to worry about what is called student unrest-it will
certainly never occur-we in turn keep our ears open to the queries of our students everyday.
And we proudly admit that they approach liS frankly and co~fidently, not only they themselves
but also their friends and families.
Do you have any idea how that happens? It is beCll.llSe we at our home on the lIT.
Campus have the good fortune to be close connected with the Alakananda Hostel due to spe~
cial manipulations of the Telephone Exchange. At first, our PABX number was the same as the
RAX number of Alakananda Hostel: 279. Those who did not know that Alakananda Hostel has
only RAX connection, and hundreds did not know, rang us up. I was fortunate to get into an
excellent physical shape by hurrying down ~rom our study on th~ first floor to the ground-floor
where the telephone stands and back ten. times a day, only to gIve the caller the sound advice
to use the ot?-er t~lepho.n~. As .soon as the first ~uspicious sounds of a telephone call rang out,
I ran down In hIgh spmts eXClted and wondermg who would call, happy about the jnterrup~
tion in a boring business.
After some more recent manipulations by the Telephone Department it seemed that all this
has come to a sad end, simply because Alakananda Hostel has also had a PABX connection with
the number 258. But far from it : the number of Alakananda Hostel and of our home have
again been changed recently: now Alakananda Hostel has 2.79 and we have 258 !
One cannot imagine the confusion. Not ten times but at least twenty times a day I have
the great pleasure of happily explaining to some one anonymous why he no more can speak to
Mr. Krishnamurty or to Mr. Ranganathan by dialling 2.58, profoundly regretting that I am not the
exchange. If 1 am in a very good mood which mostly is the case I start with long-winded explanations asking my vis· a-vis at the other end first, whether he caUs from inside or outside the
Campus. If as a reply I only receive an unintelligible Hhaaa .•. I. know: this can't be a student
of lIT, at best a more remote friend of his, some far relation. But if the fellow-afraid perhaps
he may be wrong-politely and hesitatingly asks: • Is that Alakananda Hostel 7 , I am sure~
he must be an IIT student.
And so 1 am able to determine the subtle differences between students in geneml, the gradations among them with regard to their respective attitude as well as to their inner feelings.
And this seems to me the most interesting aspect. I am very grateful for this experience. And,
back in Germany, I shall never .forget in the decades to come, India's most famous river which
lent its name to one of the IIT hostels, Alakananda ...•..•
-DR (MRS) IMGARD ZORN

PHILATELY
A special stamp has been issued to commemorate the sudden decision to lock up aU the
text books in the Institute Library.
Jokes apart, what we really regret is not the
act of super~restrictin~ access, but the need
for such an abomination. It's a pity that we
IITians have to be treated this way-maybe
it's a symptom brought about by the relentless
screwing for grades, or maybe we're just plain
cheap!
-Campastimes

Survival Techniques .•• •-(colltilllled)
The best way is the oldest way, viz., the • asking the doubts' method. After a class,
you have to run behind the lecturer and ask him doubts. (Here you have to be a bit careful.
Choose your questions in such a way that he can answer almost all, but not all of
them.) Occasionally, ask him easily-answerable doubts during the lectures. This method
shows best results if the student occupies a seat in the front row and keeps gazing at the
lecturer's map intently and devotedly.
The other is the seemingly negative approach. You have to get chucked out of
the lecturer's class at first. (Very simple: just yawn or yell out.) Then the next day you
go to his rOom and ask him to excuse you. He will say that he won't do that. He will say
a lot of other things. He will, in short, act tough. The climax will be reached when he says.
• Get out, I say! I am not interested in you 1'
Here is whel'e you act. You grab his arms (his coat, shift, table, or any other thing
within your reach) and say in a voice choked with emotion. ~ But I am interested, Sirl I
cannot bear missing your lectures. I won't be able to pass· if I do not attend your
lectures! '
This will do the trick. He lets you off, and what's more, you become one of his hot
favourites.
Some chaps are lucky enough to have their lecturers as Assistant Wardens in their hostels.
For such, there is another way of making things better.
.
When you find your Lecturer-cum-Assistant Warden sitting in the common room or
mess, pass by his with one -of your friends. While doing this you say to your friend in a
stage-whisper, , I say, yarl Our Assistant Warden is taking us Physics (or Chemistry or any
other subject) yar! And the chap is damn good yar! '
So we end up fenows 1 I am sure all of you will benefit by using these methods.

-A.

SANKARAN.

