&6

[Summer, 1969

FICTION

KAMSON
A.

PARASURAMAN

Kamson, one of the many typists of a leading firm, sat at his desk. His typewriter
occasionally tut-tutted under the impact of
his sausage-like fingers. He was modern in
every aspect-or at least he fancied himself to
be so. The first step he had taken towards
his modernisation had been to call himself
Kamson instead of Khumsun, the name he
was given by his dear parents. Kamson had
an elephantine physique. Despite this fact,
however, he was given to wearing tightfitting clothes. Another aspect of his modernization was the way he did his hair. In fact
he hardly ever did his hair. He wore it long
and had an enormous pair of untrimmed
whiskers. He even carried a mirror in his
pocket and into this mirror he often looked
to ruffle those patches of hair on his pate that
might have been accidentally smoothed down.
Kamson loathed his post of typist as he
did loathe the comb. This was mainly
because none of his co-typists were his type.
They were all sincere old men who believed
in honestly earning every paise they were
paid and in consequence hadn't much in
common with our young friend.

With the advent of Hema, the new typist,
things seemed to brighten up beyond words,
both for Kamson and for his typewriter
which found it possible to relax for the major
portion of the eight hours during which duration it was supposed to render service.
Hema's face, to be brief, was angelic.
Kamson had always liked angelic faces,
especially those within human reach.
As luck would have it, Kamson's desk was
behind Hema so that he could constantly
gaze at her. Though Kamson could have
written volumes cursing typewriters he would
have made no bones about transforming
himself into the one that came under the
delicate touch of his dear Hema. Sometimes
he looked enviously at it as Hema's slender
fingers flitted skillfully over it. Not a word
passed between them during the day. Whenever she passed near him she quickly lowered
her head and glanced in disgust through the
corner of her eye, at his staring face. She
talked with the others every now and then
but never with Kamson.
Kamson had studied logic in college. In·
deed, he had been awarded distinction in the
subject. He employed his knowledge now,
and reasoned as follows: • Hema avoids my
look, but looks at me through the corner of
her eye. Why? Because she is shy I She
does not talk to me though she does to others.
Why? Because she is shy! I And why is she shy?
Because she is in love; in love with me!' This
simple bit of reasoning was child's play for
Kamson and did not take him very long. They
were in love with each other and both of them
knew it. Then why the delay? This was

what was wrong with Indian Society according
to Kamson. There was a tendency for redtap ism even in love affairs and marriages. He
hated all kinds of red tape including the one
in his typewriter.
Kamson wished he were in one of those
western countries with Hema. There shyness
and giancing-through-the-corner-of-the- eyestuff were absent. The moment a girl saw a
boy and he saw her. they would realize they
were in love. Once this happened they would
fly into each other's arms without another
thought. One would whisper, 'Ah sweet! I
found you I' and the other would respond:
• 0, darling I And I found you!' Then things
would begin to happen. Now, Kamson was
in India; he waited for atieast an opportunity
to speak to her.
After five that evening, Kamson followed
Hema down the street, finding it difficult to
keep up with her quickening pace. ' Why
should this Juliet feel so shy as to quicken her
pace on seeing her Romeo following her?' he
wondered metaphorically. However, he hurried on, feasting his eyes, which threatened
to leave their parent sockets at any moment,
on her figure that exhibited coquetry in every
motion it made. 'Indian girls,' thought
l\:amson, 'are Indian girls.'
After this hot pursuit had lasted for some
time, Kamson had to take a turning while
Hema went straight ahead. He stopped.
Hema had hardly gone a hundred yards

from him when a shady type of character with
a gargoyle-like face started following her.
Kamson felt that the manner in which the
scoundrel lay in wait and pounced upon his
helpless Hema would have shamed a tiger
lying in wait for its prey. Hema just lowered
her head and passed on with the master villain
a little behind her all the time.
Kamson fumed in a fierce fit of fury,
clenching and unclenching his fists and
gnashing his teeth. Had his belly contained
petrol instead of the pine-apple juice which
he had liberaHy consumed during lunch, his
nostrils would have emitted long tongues of
flame. However before he could muster up
his stamina to do anything constructive, the
pair had vanished into the crowd. t Poor
girl I' thought Kamson. t If the blackguard
has been trying any funny stuff with my
Hema 1 will jolly well prove disastrous in
love affairs.'
The next day he W11S relieved to see Hema
at her desk. He spent another day staring
at her most of the time. In the evening,
intending to speak to Hema at all hazards,
he waited for everyone to clear out. When
the clock struck five everybody except Kamson
started closing for the day. As the others
were leaving, he found Hema busy with the
last file on her deslt. After casting a nervous
glance in his direction she started hurrying
up. She dropped the file in the process and
by the time she had set it right and put it
in its place, everybody except Kamson had
left. I Why this pretence to be busy and
then dropping a file and all that?' he
wondered. He got the answer within a jiffy.

On Droppil1g
Bricl{s
'Three bricks 'weighing I, 1'5 and 5 kgf
are dropped from a height of 2 metres on a
spring of scale 25 kgf/cm. If the coefficient
of restitution ••.•. .' Sorry. Wrong page.
"One of the most common methods of
manufacturing bricks is the Hoffman's kiln.
The bricks are first shaped by ••• .' Wrong
again. It's no good. I am hedged about
by every Concrete (clay) brick in existence,
when what I seek is the abstract brick, the
brick spiritual, the soul, if I may call it
that, of brickhood. It would be as well to
denote it by iB.
These imaginary bricks are not uncommOn.
When dropped, they produce effects independent of the physical concepts of impact
and reaction; Forget about the coefficient of
restitution. When a brick-dropper does his
job weJI, 110 restitution can be made. The
collision may be elastic and again it may
not, but boy is it drastic. Observable effects
are the wince of the hapless victim, which
can be measured by means of a frown
gauge, and the silent looks-I mean Looksexchanged by Our Sophisticated Friends, of
whom more later. The change in expression
A. 'V of the victim V is much larger than the A.
indicates. As the brick iB lands on the toes of
his psyche, I mean, metaphorically, the vulnerable area of his spiritual being--Ditch.
This thing is becoming much too spiritual
for my liking. Here I try (and try hard,
though the result doesn't look like it) to
write a few words of airy persiflage, and I
wind up like I had a periodical on Swami
Vivekananda this morning. And goofed.
The sheer injustice (no normal components)
of this is overwhelming.
As the brick iB lands on ...... lands on ... .
well, let's just say it lands, I know when I'm
licked. Not like those wiseacre authors who
put in an asterisk whenever th.ey get stuck,
with a footnote saying, • The intelligent
,reader may attempt to complete this statement
as an exercise.' The brick iB lands-it had
better, if this account is to proceed. Gone
are the days of studied leisure, when with
elegant mien we could meander down the
sequestered metaphysical pathways of whether
or not a brick will land. And thank goodness,
for that kind of highfalutin' flimflam is a
frightful strain to the author, let alone the
reader. Action,' says our venerable editor,
like every other e,ditor in history. It saddens
one to contemplate that editors have sordid
souls, incapable of understanding the finer
points of Literature. But never mind. So
have you.
Now let's clear the decks for action. The
brick iB lands. V winces. The friends SF,
SF g SF3 ··· . exchange Looks L1 L z L3 ..•••
up to 1J. There are several alterna.tives open
to V. ·He can quietly look at his toes and
wait for someone to remark that the summer
has really begun. He can get up and leave in
a marlted manner. He can exchange Looks
L'l L'11 L' 3'" •• with SF l SFz SF3 •••• • He
'Because she wanted to gain time to speak
to her Romeo!' At this sound reasoning his
distinction in logic smiled lovingly at him i
but he did not smile back at it for he had
better things to smile at. When Hema had
cleared her desk Kamson was beside her,
clearing his throat.
'Yes, lVIr Kamson?' said Hema without
looking up. Her words were music to his
ears and he felt as though he were floating
in the air with Bema floating by his side j
but his weight soon brought him down. He
blinked, then began, 'Er ..... er ..... er .....
Miss Hema ....
'Mrs Hema Angappan,' she corrected him,
and added, 'Yesterday I never really felt
safe till I reached my husband who was
waiting for me. He says one of these days
he's going to ..•.. '

•

•

•

Kamson is now undergoing a refresher
Course in logic.

A.

PARASURAlVIAN

