Summer,· 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

can make a quietly corrosive remark. Or he
can be openly annoyed.
Whichever of these courses V adopts, his
subsequent mode of behaviour may be classified as Reaction as opposed to Action, which
is what the masses are supposed to want.
(Forgive my calling you masses. Of course.
you're really .weights, and have a g to be
proud of.) So let's leave V to his resources.
Correction-let's leave V to his meagre re~
sources, which they are bound to be in the
absence of your expert advice and mine.
Those not satisfied with this clear and logical
explanation why we are giving V the haatk
(as the locals say) are definitely the sickening
type who average 4~ doubts per hour, and
never give the lecturer a chance to whisk off a
variable here and there to reach the otherwise impossible result. Let me quell them
once and for all by saying that a discussion of
Reaction will necessitate the use of Newton's
Third Law, which is not included in the
syllabus. The wiseacre authors aforementioned
generally say ' ...• which is beyond the scope
ofthis book (see references 3,4,17,25 and 38).'
But I scorn such feeble subterfuges.
What is this Action, which is so obviously
of the essence? With your usual perspicacity
and acumen (no offence meant) you answerthe dropping of the brick. I bow my head
before such magnificent clarity of thought. We
will therefore rivet our attention, no longer
held by the hapless V, on the central figure of
the action, the dropper of the brick (or, in
rare and delightful instances, bricks.) We
cannot call him D, because I personally have
learnt to avoid painful memories. DB is out,
because in a campus this size there must be a
few guys with these initials, and I don't want
them breathing fearful vengeance down my
neck. So let us call him the Agent of the
Action, A. AA I consider unsuitable. It
brings to mind the Alcoholics Anonymous and
the Automobile Association, two of the worst
bunches of spoilsports on record. Now don't
come up with ideas like the Malefactor M or
the Offender O. If you read Words of Power
or Thirty Days to a More Powerful Vocabulary
(I don't hold with these self-improvement
stunts myself), you could possibly work your
way through the whole alphabet. But it
won't do. The whole idea is that we are
going to adopt A's course of action with the
laudable intent of adding to the zest and
diversion of our young lives. In plain IlTese, .
we want to get a kick out of· cheesing off a
whole bunch of V's. So A is one of us. To
be more accurate, we want to be one of him.
While you're figuring that out, I will firmly
state that A is A, and it won't do to go around
calling him names.
This gag of pulling a fast one on a guy,
leaving him powerless to protest at subsequent
pills, is an old One. But it works. I make
no claim of originality for this method-in
such matters I am a humble disciple of out
lecturers out XSB way. Another good one
from the same source is, when you think of a
question you can't answer, pass the buck.
Let me give an example. When guys have
read this article (some optimism, huh?) they
will be wary, so how do you find a willing V?
Don't ask me. Think for yourself. (Think,
you know: t-h-i-n-k think.)
While you are thus occupied, I can pill
some more. What is the modus operandlof
A? (Hal That's one you won't find in your
Words of Power.) First, think of something
that Just Isn't Said. (A lot of thinking seems
to come in now. Do not be alarmed. It
just shows that this is an intellectual article.)
Second, wait for a temporary lull in the conversation. (There are evil men who assert
that this will not happen when I am around,
but I protest against such calumnies. Never
Lose Hope should be your motto.) Third,
say vour piece. And say it loud and clear.
If you have gall enough, say it twice. Thus,
complete the Action.
One last word. The observations on which
this report is based were made from what
might be termed the receiving end. The
narration is inverted because editors, as I
have remarked, like Action. So before you
rush out and do something rash, like dropping
a sizable brick on your lecturer's toe.s, pause
and reflect that there are occupational hazards
to being an A. Discretion is the better part
of Valour.
N-S.

PARAMESliWARA.

17

INSTITUTE BLUES.
'Awarded to the sportsman who reaches a high level of individual proficiency
in a recognized competitive sport requiring skill and physical exertion'

M. S.

ABRAHAM

VENKATESWARAN

Tl7e C3racluafe '69
h the graduands this year prepare themselves to go out and face the world, what are
their reflections on their past? What is their
outlook for the future? With special focus on
these two spans of time a representative
sample of the class of '69 was questioned.
What follows is an analysis "of the attitudes
and aspirations of this sample of graduands.
There are two sides to life at IITM-the
academic and the social. Nine out of ten
enjoyed the social side of life here. For
most, it has been a stimulating experience
mi..'l:ing with individuals with varied tastes
and aptitudes. One writes of his stay: 'I
have been simultaneously traversing on several
convergent roads. There are some roads on
which I have walked well, some 1 have
traversed with great interest, some I was
forced to tread on .•. for after aU the greatest
reward is the travelling itself' .
Reflections on academic life here tend to be
evasive. Some feel that they have not made
best use of the facilities offered to them.
Others say that they have wasted their time
here. An overwhelming majority appreciates
the freedom and facilities given to worlt at
the Institute. According to one, here you
get the chance to handle equipment· that
probably won't be seen by most undergraduate or graduate engineering students.

*

=II

*

The graduands were asked to pinpoint what
they feel are the defects in their course.
Some opinions
• We are trained to become researchers and
teachers while most of us actually end up in
industry'. • Too much time is being spent on
the pure sciences. The rigorousness of these
subjects is lost on the engineer who is
interested in a practical course' 'Theoretically
it is well for the men at the top to think of
, bread~based ' courses. However, in the
process of widening our vision by acquainting
ourselves with allied subjects extensively, we
are ending up as masters of no trade'.
Seven out of ten feel that our course is too
periodical oriented: the emphasis here is on
grades rather than original thinking. One
goes to the extent of confessing that 'the day
I found out that academic sUCCesS and a good
grasp of the subject are mutually exclusive, I
gave up thinking. Since then I've been on
the merit list.'
Of course, everyone does not hold such
views. It is well known that a graduate
from here knows much more about his subject
than his counterpart from other colleges.
This is mainly because of the freedom he has
to learn anything as long as he has the inclination to do so.
It is heartening to note that modifications
in the courses are being envisaged to cut out
irrelevancies and overlap. We should, how~
ever, not stop with this j evaluation of courses
subjectwise should be. done periodically.
Suggestions from students in-this regard could
sometimes help the authorities. Still, the
problem of course evaluation is complex.
, It is like shooting a gorilla at close range',
complains one.

]. E. T.

SARGUNAR

Some of the suggestions of the graduands
interviewed are summarised below.
People from Industry should be invited to
advice on course content. They could also
speak to the students on problems that they
face in industry.
I t is high time we attracted better teaching
talent rather than machinery. The selection
of teaching staff should be at least as rigorous
as the selection of students.
More time should be allotted for the
Elective subject and Project Work in the final
year. The Project Work should preferably
be industry oriented.
More branch subjects should be introduced
at the third year itself.
Attitude towards work at the IITM varies
from person to person. To some it is an
obligation j to others it is interesting and
relieves boredom; to a small minority it is
just a pain in the neck. A majority says that
attitude towards work is decided primarily by
the interest that the subject generates. - These
interests are largely influenced by the manner
in which the subject is presented by the
lecturer. To generalise about the attitude
towards classwork, it is definite that a major
portion . of it is done under a sense of
obligation.
This is the age of the jet and the jobless
engineer. It is not surprising that only three
out of ten graduands are thinking of getting
employed straightaway. Fifty percent are
contemplating study abroad for a postgraduate
degree. These are the ones doing well
academically in their undergraduate course.
They feel that they have just been introduced
to the subject and that at least a Master's
degree is essential. Almost all those planning
to do postgraduate work wish to complete
their PhD and follow it up with post~doctoral
research and! or teaching. A minority has
peculiar plans. A few would lilee to relax for
a year after graduation. Some others are
interested in starting their own industry.
By and large, those seeking a job are
average academically. Obviously, they hesitate
to study more when they are not confident of
their fundamentals. They also feel that with
an aptitude for practical work they could
probably make a mark at least in that sphere.
The graduands were asked about their
opinion on postgraduate study abroad. Two
out of every three feel that PG work is
necessary only for those intending to do rew
?earch; those Who are -ultimately joining
mdustry are only postponing their decision
~y stu~ying for a postgraduate degree either
m India or abroad. Many feel that Indian
industry does not require and cannot, afford
such highly qualified en~ineers right now.
Almost aU those planning to go abroad want
to come back after their study. They suggest
tha~ in order to be usefully employed, the
engmeer should be careful to choose subjects
which find applicatiQ.n ill his own country.
VENKA'rESH MANNAR.

