18

CAMPAST.IMES

Indo-German Economic

[~ummer,

AN INTERVIEW WlITH DR S. CHANDRASEKHAR

Relations
Trade is better than aid 1 This is not a
philosophical statement but it is founded in
reality. Today, Indian industrial and economic sectors are exporting thdr products not
only in the so called under-developed markets,
but also in the highly developed markets of
western countries including the United States
of America. This shows the quality standard
of the goods made in India. Germany could
only feel happy at this instance, as since 1961
she has taken an active part jn the development of the Indian industries, with man,
material and technical know-how. But compared to the big industrial nations, India's
participation in the international trade is today at a modest stage. In other words it is
a humble beginning which has seeds of great
development and progress. However, this
development is the result of a friendly
partnership with many developed countries,
which joined hands together to co-operate
with Indians for an industrial India. Needless
to say that Germany is one of these friends.
One could trace back the beginning of
Indo-German cultural and intellectual relations at least two hundred yearS ago. Trade
between India. and Germany, however,.made
no remarkable progress while India was
under a foreign power. But today as the
name Max-Mueller stands for the IndoGerman cultural understanding, so is • Rourkela' for economic co·operation and IITMadras, for scientific and technical partnership between India and Germany. Bllt is
this relation only a symbolical one?
Geo-politically speaking Germany is an
important nation in the heart of Europe and
India-a great and importal1.t country in
Asia. 'rhus a glance at the globe is enough
to demonstrate that both politically and
economically India holds a particularly important position in the world. The Federal
Republic of Germany has been on good
economic terms with India ever since her
attainment of Independence. It was, therefore, only natural for India to receive
particular attention from Germany. At the
mitial stage, it was necessary to build up the
heavy or basic industry in India and so in the
production of steel, German industrialists
co-operated in • Rourkela '. Today, apart
from the big German industries, there are
more than three hundred individual private
German firms which have co-operated with
their counterparts in India. More are willing
to come and are negotiating with their Indian
friends and government.
Germany has contributed more than three
billion Marks in form of development aid
towards India's economic progress since x96x.
This is not symbolical assistance but shows
real goodwill and sincere efforts for a better
mutual understanding. The Indian people
have recognized the valuable capital and
technical assistance from Germany. But
according to some economic observers, this
is the one side of the coin. The other side,
viz., Indo~German trade, has been paid no
extra attention by the Federal German
Government. It continues to be almost as
unfavourable against India as before. • It
hobbles along, as it were, on one short and
-one long leg.' In other words, the Indo~
German trade has been fluctuating between
DM. soo to 800 miUions a year.
On many occasions the reasons for the
.above unfavourable situation have been discussed. India needed heavy machinery and
-other modem technical and engineering goods
for capital investment in the country. Such
goods were made available to her by the
German firms. As against to this heavy
-iinports, Indian exports were negligible.
Thus there remained a big difference in the
balance of payments. Consequently, Indian
'imports from Germany haye gone down.
Moreover, sincere efforts are being made to
bridge the remaining gap in the Indo-German
trade balances. Happily for both India and
'Germany, trade experts are concentrating
their attention to promote the bilateral trade.
In the Federal Republic of Germany,
Indians do enjoy a better social position than
other 'foreigners'. Again this is not symbolical but indicates deep rooted understalld~
(Contd. ali p.

20

i Col. 3)

-1969

By

SIVARAM

.Last November, the eminent Astra Physicist Dr S. Chandmsekhar was in
bz~za for a few ~ays. On the recommendations of Dr Alladi Ramakrishna,
I;)zrect~r of i}datsczence, Dr Chandrasekhar was kind eflough to grant me an.
mte(v~ew whtch lasted for well over two hours.
Dr. Chandrasekhar: Recipient of the ~ationa1 Science Medal (highest U.S. award
for SCIence), and the much prized Ferm.i award of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (only Indian to get this award) ; he is perhaps best known for the Cbandrasekhar
limit; left India about 30 years ago and is now a U.S. citizen.
'Let me see 'what you have done,' He
began. I showed him my first paper: A
possible solutioI' to tile CIUJI'gy riddle of t/le
quasar.
• I will have no time to read th.rough it.
Will you explain the main features?' I began
by showing him the actual total amount of
energy radiated by an average quasar, calculated by combining published optiCAl-radio
astronomical data (on luminosity, Doppler
shift etc.) with Rubbles Law.
Dr C : < What 'value did you assume for the
Hubble constant? •
S: (a bit nervously, with hesitation) '100 Km
per second per megaparse, sir.'
Dr C: (sternly) I No. that is not the latest
value. The current value obtained from
recent calculation is 7S. That might
alter your value significantly.'
r made a rapid approximate mental calcu·
lation and told him, 'Sir, it is altered by a
factor of 4- or 5.'
Dr C: 'Yes. Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Your figure will still be of the right order.
• And what did you assume for the Doppler
shift? '
S: • Factor of 1.5 '
Dr C : • That is reasonable enough.'
I then showed him the estimate of the
quasar mass. He nodded agreement. Next
my paper showed that no thermonuclear
power cycle such as those proposed by Bethe,
Weizacker and others to account successfully
for the vast energy radiated by the sun will
provide for even a fraction of the energy
radiated by the quasar (even those involving
the most rigorous thermonuclear reactions
among the heavier nuclei). Hence I had
ruled out thermonuclear reactions as the
power sourCe for the quasar. He agreed
after taking another critical look at the calculations. I had then ruled out the fleeing
supernova theory' as baseless and contrary to
observation. He agreed. I then attacked the
highly interesting and ingenious Hoyle
Fowler theory (bassd on Schwarzchild's exact
solution to Einstein's general relativity field
equations).
He interrupted saying 'Young man, you
need not waste time explaining the HoyleFowler theory to me I Just let meknow your
criticism; I had shown that although the
Hoyle-Fowler theory accounted for the vast
energy radiated, the quasar should have Considerably diminished in intensity in the five
years it has been under observation if their
theory was correct. But it was found to be
shining steadily with the same intensity.
Dr C: 'You mean the Hoyle-Fowler gravitational collapse would be far too rapid
to account for observatiol1s? '
S: 'Yes sir. The quasar should have (if
their theory is right) by now contracted
to the Einstein-Schwarzchild limit and
vanished into oblivion.
Dr C; (after sometime): • That is right, but
I am afraid your criticism belated as tbe
Hoyle-Fowler theory (proposed about four
years ago) is no longer in favour.
It has been critic.ised from various points
of view and your criticism is just one more
view point. Anyway let us forget the HoyleFowler theory and now tell me what solution
do you propose? That is more important
than criticizing existing theories.'
I now explained my solution, i.e. I had proposed a photo thermonuclear annihilation rc
action whiclJ would take place througlJout the
body of the quasar but with a steep increasing
rate of reaction gradient to,,,-ards the core.
This reaction releases ~bout zoo times more
energy than the most vigorous thermonuclear
reactions. Detailed calculations on the rate
of reaction summed up over the entire quasar
body showed that the energy released by the
above process per sec. was good agreement
I

w

w

with the observed value of the cllergy radiated
by the quasar.
Abo it ;"'as shown that the total photon
radiation pressure (computed from the Bose~
Einstein photon distribution summed up over
the entire quasar) produced by the above reaction was balanced by the pressure due to
the strQng inward gravitational force of the
massive quasar.
Tbus the quasar was in equilibrium which
would account for its shining steadily unlike in
the Hoyle-Fowler gravitational collapse.
Dr C: (after listening carefully and after
some reflection), 'I think that recently
Dr Edward Teller (father of the II-bomb)
had a similar idea.'
Hc explained Teller's idea, which is a sort
of zone reaction of the above type taking place
in a thin slab-like area between two separate
masses.
S ~ • Sir, from what you have said, my idea is
of a different nature. Teller's is only a
zone reaction whereas in my solution I
presume the reaction to take place with
varying rates over the entire body of the
quasar. Also a zone reaction is bound
to give only limited amounts of energy So
that Teller'S solution wiII provide for only
fraction of the energy, I think.'
Dr C: • But both your solution and Teller's
have the same basis i.e. the annihilation
reaction.'
S: • That is true, Sir.'
Dr C: ' Well I disagree with both you and
Teller. Of course, Teller is a very wellknown scientist but if you excuse my
saying so you are 110t yet well-known.'
S: 'But Sir, there is ample laboratory evidence for thc above reaction.'
Dr C: 'Maybe, but I am not convinced.'
S: 'Also my solution accoun.ts very well for
observ.ations like energy rate, luminous
stabili~y etc.'
Dr C: 'Are you familiar with the latest observations? Say those taken three or
four months back? •
S: • No Sir, I am afraid the latest observa~
tional data have 110t yet reached India.
All m~ theorizing is based on what is available a~d that is outdated by a margin of
nearly/two years.'
Dr C: 'Yes I recognise the fact that the
latest observational and theoretical material will not be available in this country.
I sympathise with you. You have the
necessary enthusiasm and interest but no
proper facilities like the latest books and
papers. Anyway, just because you have
explained some observations you cannot
say you have found a theoq. Besides,
th.e latest observations might very well
knock off your theory for all you know.'
At this stage We were interrupted. Some
old class mate of Chandrasekhar's, in Madras
University wanted to see him. 'Please tell
him, I cannot see him. I am busy discussing
here/
He then said that he himself favoured a
solution based on general relativity (other
than the Hoyle-Fowler collapse) rather than
an ad-hoc annihilation reaction. New ideas
like < gravitational radiation' might help solve
the problem. However general relativity
conservation problems are stiIl there.
We then passed on to my next paper
Neutron productiof~ in stellar interiors. FOfmati01Z of heavy elemelzts (l1ld heavy nuclei ill stellar tnteriors a1t.d itt supemofJa explo$i011S by COIltitntous Itelltron capture and sltccessive betadecay, In this I had shown that main~
sequence stars more than 15 times heavier
than the sun after becoming red giants (as
postulated by Gamov, Ramsey and others) are
capable of undergoing generations of succes~
sive thermonuclear reactions in their helium
cores, producing heavier and heavier nuclei.

