At a temp. between 2000-3°00 million
degrees the nuclei of iron and manganese are
produced. But now I showed that at about
these temps. a new reaction (that of neutron
production) gains increasing predominance as
the temp. goes higher, and finally at a temp.
between 3000 million and 4000 million degrees
-completely dominates over the thermonuclear
reactions which are consequently aborted.
Neutron capture follows leading to the formation of nuclei heavier than iron while successive ,a-decay leads to the formation of the
heaV'ier elements. Also a very large number
of neutrons escape from the stellar interior as
they are neutral particles unaffected by electromagnetic fields of nuclei. Neutron production
being a endothermic nuclear reaction, the
production and escape of vast numbers of
neutrons from the stellar core drains a considerable amount of energy from the core.
A quantum thermodynamic analysis of the
above situation showed that it will lead to a
tremendous stellar explosion (supernova).
The explosion will scatter a large number of
neutrons and heavy nuclei into space and the
process of heavy nuclei formation will continue during and after the above explosion, till
the heaviest nucld of the periodic table are
produced.
Dr C: (after listening) , How did you compute
the cross~sections for neutron capture ? '
S: • By the Breit-Wigner formulae.'
Dr C: That is not so sophisticated. There
are scientists like Clayton Diesel anp.
others who are also working on something of what you have said. I cannot
say whether your ideas are right or wrong
but I would advice you to read a recent
treatise by Clayton. It is a masterpiece in
nuclear astrophysics incorporating the
latest observations. If at aU it comes to
India, it will cost you at least Rs. ISO or
even more with all those import restrictions. I will send it to you free of cost,
after it is published. Have you read
Bethe's paper on the computation of
cross-sections in his solat thermonuclear
reaction cyete (which won him the Nobel
Prize in 1967) ? '
S: 'Nasir.'
Dr c: • Have you read the works of Diesel,
Freeman and Clayton ? '
I

19

CAMPASTIMES

Summer" 19691

S: 'No sir.'
Dr C: • Have you at least heard of them r '
S: I I have heard of Freeman's work but I
am not SUre of Diesel or Clayton.'
Dl' C : • Well you should read all those and
much more. Of course you have the
terrible handicap of not having those
books and papers in your libraries
at all. It 13 simply not available. ·After
I send you that book please share them
with your fel1ow~students and make them
work also.'
S : 'But sir, we have 110 department of astrophysics in our Institute.'
Dr C: 'Then which do you come fi'om?
Physics Dept.? '
S ." 'No Sir, Mechanical Engineering.'
Dr C: ' What 1 Mech. ElIgg.? '
(He is a bit puzzled' for some time).
I So much the worse.
It means you calUlot
keep in touch with the latest developments
in the field, as you won't have time.'
S: • Yes Sir, all that I have done is based on
a few minutes of spare time.'
Dr C : • Anyway, it is unfortunate that you
don't belong to this field.'
I next showed him my third paper. A1t
approximate calculatiolt for the age of the
Ulliverse. It waS a novel method.
I got 60,000 million years. The value
obtained by Dicke and others based on the
application of -the general theory of relativity
to a finite expanding univetse is 70,000 million
years.
At this state we were interrupted again.
I You are of Course very interested in
these
modern subjects and maybe you have the
potential to be another Eintsein, but I tell
you, it is much more difficult to be an
Eintsein in 1968 man it was in 1905. To
make a 10ng~lasting significant contribution
you must first be familial' with all the most
recent developments and must thoroughly
master them. I really admire your enthusiasm
and interest. I myself had to study hard for
eight long years before I made my contribution. I don't see how I can help you right
now but we will see.
I was tired of being ah...ays patted on the
back and told • well done' or 'keep it up 7.

BOXING
The announcement that boxing will be included in the inter~hostel matches from next
year sparked off interest in more IITians than
ever before. A rolling trophy has been
instituted as well.
. The finals of the open boxing tournament
this year was held on the ::16th February, and
boxing fans were delighted to witness a card
of six action-packed bouts. Although a lot
of upsets took place, the boxing standard has
definitely touched a new high.
Redoubtable' shorty' Nair came off unscathed in his bout against Doraivelu in the
Flyweight class. In Featherweight, Prein
Watsa caused a major upset when he edged
past Thomas ';I'haru in a keenly contested
bout. The Bantamweight bout had its own
anxious moments when Kannan and Pais
battled it out for the laurels. Pais, with a
more aggressive stance, managed to supress
Kannan.
The Ashokan-Bhaskar fight which might
have had its thrills, turned ou~ to be a rather
one-sided affair, when Ashokan overwhelmed
his opponent with a second round T.K.O.
and went on to win the· Best Boxer'
trophy.
Probably the most interesting bout of the
evening was in the -Welterweight class where
D. V. Singh and Victor Thamburaj fought a
see-saw battle. Victor, pitting his stamina
and power~packed punches to match D. V.
Singh's ring-craft and experience•. claimed
the title after a very close final tally. D. V.
Singh deservbgly WOll the ' Best Loser'
trophy.
-.
.
In the heavies, although J. E. T. Sargunar
came off second best he had the courage and
determination to sunrive 3 rounds against
Sanyal. The latter had no opportunity to show
his excellence due to the unbalanced match.
I

-Campastimes
What I have always wished for is criticism of
my work from an authority. In this, I was
not disappointed in the interview with
Dr Chandrasekhar.

I~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~~~·~~~~·

I
BANGALOI~E

t
Mal7u/acfurers of:
Mico-Licence~Bosch Spark Plugs and

Diesel Fuel

Injection Equipment

Under licence of ROBERT BOSCH GmbH,

