[Summ~rt

~o

1969.

SHORT STORY

'Tl-lE MAltTIANS
~RE COMING'
Professor Meeow p. Fizz built a wallycud.
die transmitter and got in touch ,with the
Martians.
That was over two weeks ago. Now.the
Martians are regretting it.
The first Martian transmission was;

--oil ..,_ ..- . - .

.-.

..~

-.

To' which Meeow replied:
, Speak in English, you horrors. Think you
can act funny just becuz you're lM:artians,
huh? •
The Martians considered this. They re.
considered it. 'They finally decided that
Earth. couldn't be much worse than Mars,
even jf it did hold things like Meeow. • We
are coming,' they replied. They came.

ARVIND JOHARI
The Atta and Science Fair is a happening
that CO!l\es around once a year. Unkind
l'eople seem to think that neither Art nor
Science face the slightest risk of being ex,.
posed on such occasions.
When engineers stray into the realms of
srt, the intrusion must be pardoned. the effi.-ont
overlooked, and the effort tolerated.
During the Cultural Week, canvasses,
paintings' and sketches from almost all the
leading colleges in the city (including lIT)
tastefully decorated the. exhibition room,
lending an aUra of enchantment and substance to a place which under ordinary
circumstanc.es sees nothing more exciting than
a student or three sleeping on the last bench.
Most artists from IlT are exponents of
modern art. Their works never fail to draw
fascinated attention.
Take for instance the case of the bearded
non-conformillg conformist who goes by the
name of Ranjan Kelly. His' Sudden End'
leaves the observer wondering whether he is
(laming or going. Something like 'Up the
·down staircase '. It won him the Judges'
Special Prize for originality.
Kelly is at his best when designing cards
and posters. He comes on with an effective
combination of elegance and beauty to give
true simplicity. His cards have a candou.
and a style that is so refreshing in contrast to
the eye-searing rhetoric of the past. It
wouldn't be a bad idea for the Gymkhana to
keep these cards as models for future
Institute cards.
Then there is Gnanachandra. The tempo
.of contemporary life, and the energies and velo,cities of the technological age are caught in
nis swift, exultant swathes. Under his

veering, tumbling slushes of blue, orange and
white, ordinary life comes alive and realities
are brought as powerfully close to the eye as
possible.
In one of his sketches there is a nimbus of
mystery: is it a fish or is it a woman 'J You
can see a basket, a woman's head and a fish
entwined in a maze of fishy loops. By the
time your eyes get ac-customed to it, YOli
discover that it's not only a fish, but also a
woman - - a fishel'woman. It got him a
pri~e at the exhibition.

Another artist of stature is Vijay Sarihan.
His ' Catamaran' is a powerful portrayal of
the solitary, scenic splendour of a Catamaran
lying on the sea shore. The blue sea and sky
make a harmonious blending of natUl'al hues
to give a perfect effect to the background.
Making his debut in the world of art via
this year's exhibition is Marcus. He did
quite wen, prize wise, meaning he's the guy
who walked away with the 1st prize right
from under the nose of all the old pros.
Seen also at this year's exhibition were
symptoms of a strapge malady: the use of
French titles with English sub~titles 1 The
fifteen odd languages provided for in the
Constitution have given us enough problems
of our own. Adding one more isn't going to
help. Nobody would advise our young artists
to experiment with Tamil or Kannada names.
But they could try English for a change.

*

*

*

They arrived at Meeow's house in time for
dinner. Their spaceship landed in a tumbler
of water. The Martians are a small race.
Meeow gulped the water down. And
burped. The Martians made the acquaintance of a la'·ge quantity of sambar and rice.
A few milliseconds later, their spaceship
entered a lacteal through a villar foramen and
started exploring Meeow's lymphatic system.
By th€; time they reached the ventral hyposomal thingummyjig, the Martians could
stand it no more. Th.e spaceship was ejected
through Meeow's paraglossal sudorific orifice:
and not a microsecond too soon. TheY' were
all as sick as Martian kreegas.
The moment they were free once more, the
Martians expanded their spaceship IOU times.
That made it about as big as the Admin.
Block. 'Swallow us now, if you can I ' they
jeered at Mceow.
WJ?ich was very unwise of them. For
though Meeow couldn't hear them (the
Martians themselves were microscopic, you
see: only their ship was expanded), he saw
the spaceship. He sent a. cablegram to an
American friend that just outside his door was
the surely the largest pumpkin that ever was.
You can see the spaceship at the Smithsonian Museum labelled J Pumpkinus Indieus '. The poor Martians are the subject of
a treatise written by Professor Mceow Fizz
entitled 'The social life of a curious family
of green jungle ants found in a pumpkin.'
Unfortunately, the treatise is only half finished, for the Professor's on~year-old son, who
in many ways is as great an investigator as
his father, ate the Martians. He howled for
more, and he couldn't get them, so he smashed
the waUycuddle transmitter in a fit of peevish
rage.
AU of which perhaps accounts for the fact
that the Martians have decided to keep far
away from us,

POOTS

Action at Sangam
Dr Karl Pfauter and a huge cheering crowd
of IITians witnessed thirty skaters contesting
for open championship at the largest Skating
rink' in India on the 20th of February.
Jddges Dr Bisam;, Dr Zurn and Prof
N. K. Datta had no trouble ill placing S.
Umapathy first. M. Papa Rae was second.
Earlier that evening, Dr Schrameyer, Consul, spoke on skating in Germany.

-Campastimes News.
Indo-Gerxnan-(Contd.)

Photo: Kubendrnn

At the foundation stone for the new Chemistry Block. Seen are the Supdt.
Engg. Mr Nagarajan, Prof M. V. C. Sastri, Mr H. V. R. lengar, Prof Rama..chandran and Consul Dr R. BindseH.

ing and friendship. The name India (which
1S ' Indien' in German) is something which
charms a German. In every mind, together
with a dreamy~Iand of Maharajas, India is
also an industrially progressing nation.
Germans are only proud and happy to join
hands with their Indian friends to build~up
India of tomorrow-which is profitable for
both Germany and India.
-By Courtesy of the Cantulate General
oj the Federal Repuhlic of Germatry,
1I1adras, and Dr H. Zllern, lIT•

