Summer, 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

Annual Spring Fling

""EEKPUL OF CULTURE
As usual, the Cultural Week crackled with
Gallic electricity as Madras' top student
si>eakers. a~d . buoyant entertainers convened
at the Instttute for the Annual Spring fling
Critics complained that the Week too ofte~
failed to go beyond the familiar to the unusual or daring: a relief it didn't, {or one
can~ot accustom oneself to staid young men
leamng casually across the mike to shout
out some foul obscenity.

All INDIA DEBATE
VERY MUCH ALIVE

Feb,'uary
Is God Dead? Motion rejected.

10.

196 9

God was the issue of the Debate on
February 10. • Is God dead: It is a question
that tantalizes both. believers, who perhaps
secretly fear that he lS, IIt~eists. who, possibly
suspect that the answer 1S no' began a lady
speaker, and went on to give an abridged
version of TIME's probe into theology (April
8, 196~). A daring attempt that paid off.
~mlr Ahmed .(ItT) began confidently,
ralSIn~ the . qu.estlo~ that the question in
questIon mIght be In question '. He puzzled
the: audicn~e with a pastiche of quotes and
9.U1ps,. try~g to pr?ve t~e reality of the
lntanglble with four-dlmenslOnal mathematical
models.
Others contended that not only is God
dead-he never was. The challenging question
although not a very suitable subject for
debate, as. R. Shankar in his resume pointed
out, ce~tatnly encouraged lively discussion on
the sub/ect.
.
P. N. Narayanan (Loyola) was adjudged
Second. Loyola t-clamed the Institute Troph
MCC's veteran deb"terR H '
d
y.
probably deserved ranking:
an an Leela

GERMAN RECITATION
A FAMILY GATHERING

February, 11 1969
lIT. once a strong contender for the trophy,
fared miserably in the recitatjon. A new rule
that only institutions that teach German are
eligible to participate knocked out a few
colleges; however, seventeen persons took
part. To the reviewers, it looked as if the

sta?dard had fallen. Even the English translatIon of a German ballad, which a competitor
helpfully recited, didn't quite go well.

GROUP DISOUSSION
T~e techniqu~ of Group Discussion lies in
pro.vmg that five s a company and not a crolvd.
Thts cannot b~ accomplished with the facility
of a~ after dtnn7r chat. It requires much
more. effort and Just the right amount of preparatIOn. Anythmg less or more will be only
too obvious to listeners.
. These and many more fingerprints COncernlllg th~ art of discussion are coming to be
appreciated. by many college groups. The
standard thts year was quite high. MCC,
Loyola and SIET, holders, contested keenly
~or the trophy: the other colleges will bear
nnprovement. The group from MCC won
the trophy. It talked on whether or not our
r~spect for forefathers varies inversely as the
ttme. Pro~ Krishna~urthy, speaking on be~
half of the Judges, saId that he was impressed
by the natural~ess o~ t~e MCC: group and the
atmosphere of tnformahty that It maintained in
s~arp c?ntrast to the planned and memorised
dISCUSSiOn of Some colleges.
The home team (Shankar, Roy, Amir Ahmed
Gopa Kumar and Sanyal) performed very
well,. discussing our former Chairman'S
facetIous remark-' Where is the Brain?
Where 1s the Drain?' with commendable
frankness.

QUIZ
Shri R. Parthasarathy IAAS was the Quiz
master of the evening. Madras Christian
CoUege retained the trophy.

ENTERTAINMENT

NOT
V~KY
l'U~~l"lt.
l'eOluary
13, 14 & IS. With such large variation in
taste among the participating colleges the
Entertainment Competition offers bewildering
contrasts-some planned like clockwork, others
a mere patchwork guilt of assorted items,
some plain. others vulgar-some humorous
and others sick. It wasn't surprising that
most colleges preferred to work on the
common denominator of music so that they
could bag a few individual pdzes.
As usual SIET impressed us with their
sincerity of approach. Unlucky to be nosed
out by MCC in a close race for the trophy,

21.
they nevertheless made II valiant attempt.
Usha Na~,arajan was convincing and successful as both em~~e and actress. Arundathi
Basu was the Indian movie heroine-and she
played the. part to perfection-in the skit
based. on Mario's Round-and-Round-theMulberry-Bush routine. No Naga dance
this time.
.Our: entertainment was unduly long-75
~lnut7s.· To the Acids, our group which
made ~ts debut, the folk 1ll~sjc of Bob Dylan
and SImon and Garfunkel IS more appealing
than the loud songs with the steady beat
that long-haired uncombed youths blast out in
elect:oni~ guitars with depressing regularity.
MUSIc-wlse their performance Was commendable. The less said about the skit by « Gope
Roy and Co.' the better. The skit flickers
wit ~ the ritual was overly familiar and more
than a bit of a drag.
The eagerly awaited MCC entertainment
wa~ di~appointing in parts. What marred
then. skit was the air of improvisation which
at tunes turned foul. Ameena Joseph's
phonetic punctuation was a riOt-a chockful of
laughs. 'Their skit reminded us nostalgically
of the old, old days when Ambi the Kambi was
younger. YMCA staged a repeat performance
of the Bhangra (February 1967) and re~
tonquered lIT. Loyola and MIT made
favourable impression on us.
Back to Normal:
Audien.ce behaviour in the Cultural Week
Entertainment was quite pleasant-unusually
quiet and restrained. A welcome change.

of

- VENKATESH MANNAR.
LOGANATHAN.

A MAN BEHIN·D
TECHNICAL EQUIP.MENT
Oberingenieur R. Staiger, Deutsche FOfderungsgesellschaft fur Entwlcklungsliinder
(GAWI). was in Madras for some days in
February.
When IITM is to receive anv tl'ch"';l'S!1
selects the most suitable onc. checking for
good condition and service capacity.
He visited IlTM to see the equipment being
used here, to visit the labl)ratories and find
out what kind of instruments are required
in future.
In his opinion it is difficult to say which
machine is to be used how much. India
needs not only text-books but also utilisation
of improved equipment. That is why very a
important item in the Indo-German 'pro~
gramme is technical equipment aid.

-Campasumes.

