22

[ Summer, . 1969

-GAS

DR. ZUERN'S

A ~WEET BUNCH OF KIDS
• They're the sweetest bUllch of kids I've
known.' .
'What? I'
'Honest, Dad.'
• So you've been taken in by their sick
,grins.'
• Feeling malicious; aren't you? '
, Okay, I won't say anything. Let's hear
.about it.'
'We)), I bowlced in feeling nervy as hell.
Them folks were wearing their best smiles.
A couple of " Present Sirs It jolted me. Then
not a squeak out of them while 'I
lectured.'
, Did you dare to look at them? '
, Natch.'
, Bored expressions? '.
, I've never seen a more attentive set.'
'Attentive to what-, I wonder .... No one
·sleeping in the last bench ? '
. 'Nope:
, Wait tilt the n.ovelty wears off.'
'Dad, I think I'll always love teaching.
No chance of me getting •• ~ . '
• No, no, no, no, not that. I mean, the
novelty of a beautiful lady lecturer.'
• Hey Pop, you mean them guys don't give
a hang abou.t Eco? They're just being
interested 'cause I'm a woman and that sort
-of thing?'
• You're getting brig~t, 11'1 gal.'
, You know what, Dad? '
<

SUMM_ER VACATION CONTESTS No.2
COURTESY;

CONSULATE-GENERAL OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

Competition One:

"GERMANY IN TUE EYES OF AN INDIAN"
What is Germany as seen by you? Make a drawing representative
_o f this and send it in. You stand to win a big prize.
Competition Two:

"SYMBOL FOR INDO·GERMA.N FRIENDSHIP"
How can we symbolize Indo-German friendship? Send in a drawing
of the symbol that you. think will be most appropriate.
An attractive -sum is waiting for you.

ALL-ENTRIES SHOULD REACH. BEFORE 1st AUGUST, 1969,

What?'

The Editor

'You're JI'
AAIOO

Campastimes

THE LATEST
Crazes in the Institute vary from year to
year. For instance, at about this time last
year, the general passion was one of kleptomania; this was clearly evidenced by the
number of denuded signposts in the campus.
Conse<Juently, the interiors of many rooms
were richly decorated with posters bearing
legends like: • State Bank of India' ,
Family Planning Week', • This way to
Alakananda' etc., etc. However, like all
crazes, this soon died down, especially after
the Security Officer and his gang made a
• lightning' raid at midnight on some rooms
in Ganga.
Today, things have moved in a completely
new direction. Every self-respecting soul is
busily working out crosswords; these provide
hours of innocent pleasure (tempered with
considerable heartbreak when an elusive
word keeps baffiing one I). The boredom of
insipid lectures is no longer a fact •..• with
crosswords to keep one entertained in the back
bench, why, life is made! It's a common
sight to see chaps sidling into class with dictionaries, or Roget's Thesaurus, and, of
course, a grimy, ragged piece of paper containing the precious crossword.
A number of problems come in the way of
anybody wishing to start off on this craze.
The most important is, naturally-where does
-the crossword c.ome from? The obvious and
-simplest source is 'the Common Room. How·ever, one has to be fast, and an early riser
to get the crossword from this sou rce: a lot of
·other guys also have the same idea 1 Consequently, a reglliarifeud seems to be raging in
some hostels the most notable case being that
of Tapti, wl;ere the newspaperman is waylaid
the minute he enters the hostel I
Once one has the crossword, the next thing
is to solve it. no easy job for the uninitiated.
However, through trial and error and tips from
old hands, experieince is slowly gained and one
can progress from the relatively simple ' Sunday Standard' crossword to tougher ones.
A new field of entertainment is open before you. So get with the trend, man, don't
be left out. Raid the Common Room, blackjack the fellow who beat you to it, and start
solving I

OffICE Of THE INSTITUTE GYMKHANA
INDIAN INSTITUTE. OF TE.CHNOLOGY, MADRAS-36.

NOTE:

All drawings are to be in white non-absorbent paper, or plastic sheet size not less
than approximately 300 mm. X ISo mm. Write your name and full address in block
capitals on your entry. Send in as many entries as you like.

I

-C. K.

SHARMA.

The Castle Park on the Nympenburg in Munich-one of the city's landmarks-is a favourite rendezvous
lJr tourists and walkers. The Bavarian capital, with its population of just about a ll)illion people, is a
centre of art and culture in Germany. The zoological gardens and the botanical gardens attract hundreds
of thousands of visitors. The Gennan Museum is, perhaps, the best technical museum in the world.
(IN-Bild)

, So you had a fight with Sanyal 1 Did he apologise to you? •
• What do you mean apologise ~ He came crawling on all fours to me.'
(How else do you reach a guy under the bed)
-RAV!

Edited by K. KalYBnaraman, Published by Prof. S. Sampath and Printed by C. E. Koshy at the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute of Technology. Madras.

