The further research technique consISts of
repeatmg m a paraphased form your statements of the last three minutes and then of
Immediately quallfymg them by (1) descnb
mg how Oppenschwetzer at Princeton had
already spent four years studymg this pomt;
(2) Ilstmg SIX references, four Imagmary,
, Very good on this sort of thing", (3) reminding the class that this was simply
another theory and was probably no better
than that put forward by Ponsonby and
Fothermgton-Hyde twenty years prevIOusly
Or, If no ready explanation IS available,
assuming a resigned expressIOn and saYing
that' If you question thiS you might as well
start counting on your fmgers agam"
Whichever method you use be sure to finish
It With a sweet "I hope thiS answers your
questions"
ThiS method has the advantage of setting
you up as an mdlvldual well Informed In hiS
field, a walking biblIOgraphy, a philosopher
of sorts, and a nice person.

(d) Tr;el," ,
mildly ;,deresting
Two techniques of cardinal Importance m
thiS field are good blackboard diagrams and
effective text references.
There are two classes of diagrams, the
qualitative sketches and the dimensioned
quantitative draWings. It [S Important that
all qualitative sketches be done With hard
chalk, With several systems of shadmg, at
least three kmds of broken fines, and properly
proportIOned lettering
DOing thiS sets
you up as a person painstaking In details,
a perfectIOnist who spares no effort, a neat,
tidy, well-organized indiVidual You can
further Increase the benefiCial effects of thiS
by passing It off as a "mere sketch Just to
give you an Idea, you know", 'a Simple Ime
diagram", "a rough Idea. Don't copy It
down; you can do much better on your
own". Saymg somethmq of thiS sort not
only shows your dlsarmmg modesty but also
presents the class With VISions of red penCil
hnes across their best. [f not QUIte as practised, graphical endeavours.
The quant[tatlve drawmgs require a totally
different attack. They can be done either
With very soft chalk and thick lines or With

very famt lines drawn with hard chalk,
espeCially effective on ground glass boards.
It IS absolutely essential that rulers,
squares compasses not be used as thiS may
suggest that you cannot cope With the subJect Without outSide help All symbols
should be Greek, With emphaSIS on the less
Widely recognized letters. ThiS Induces
thought among the students and leads to a
better appreciation of the ClaSSICS If at all
pOSSible, one symbol Should be used for
more than one quantity ThiS sharpens the
students power of observation and may also
lead to some very Interestmg dialogue.
That IS NOT the Imaginary I". Oh,
e g.
you mean here? No, that IS the I'th term.
The second Ime? Of course that's the I
vector No, no, nol That stands for
Internall"
Symbols which may have an intUitIve
meanmg should be aVOided. We recommend, for example, the use of "tau. for
volume and "s" for area.
There are three baSIC manoeuvres In book
referenCing which have enjoyed conSiderable
success over the years.
The first consists of giVing a hst of three
or four "very good" books, heartily recommending one of them, and then proceedmg
to give a set of notes that makes the books
seem like Grade I Primers. ThiS Immediately shows that you are Intellectually
superior to the books' authors.
The second technique conslsts of suggesting "an excellent" book at the beginning of
the year and Ignoring It completely from then
on. ThiS may be augmented by referring
often to one other book In partIcular, knowIng well that there IS only one copy of It 10
Circulation.
The third technique, less Widely used but
devastatmg, consists of'lgnoflng the whole
questIOn of references until three weeks
before the exams and then announcing that
Elersetzer's "A Simple Introduction to Elementary Discontinuities" IS the best book
that can be found for reviewing the year's
work In Advanced AnalYSIS of Complex
Smgulantles The Inference, of course, IS
that the subject taught IS barely worth any
mental endeavour, and hence all students
who fmd trouble With It are IdiotS.

(e)

Eallll. large III boring

The main objectives are to keep the
students agitated and also to try and sneak
a few tricky minor POints past them The
former can be achIeved by hl9h-speed
dictation, slowed down only occaslo nally
for breath mg. FollOWing the work from the
text can be given a change of pace by stoppIng abruptly at the end of paragraph, walking
to the board, thlnkmg for a moment and
then putting, With great dIgnity, the first
word of the next paragraph at the upper
left-hand corner. ThIS should awaken most
of the dozers, espeCially If the chalk can be
made to squeak, and Will also allow you to
have a little sport guessing the number of
those who date up a new page In their
notes.
Approaching a lecture in which you plan
to put over a minor tricky pomt which IS
not In any text, has never been mentioned
before, will never be mentioned agam, and
would make a good exam question, you
should enter the room With ayes half-open
and feet draggmg. ThIS gIVes the students
a false sense of secuTity and the trap IS set,
Making some minor errors and haVing
apparently great pains In adding to a hundred
you Will put the class In the mood of selfassurance whIch comes from a feeling of
utter superiority. Then With two minutes to
the and of the lecture you make your rapier
thrust and Withdraw before anyone thmks of
asking for an explanation.

(I) Easy. mildly interesting
The procedure here consists of Simply
commg In on the flTst day, 91vmg a genumely
good reference, tellmg the class that thiS
IS their snap course, leaVing your office
number, and leaVing.
It is hoped that the above collection of
Ideas, drawn from experience and Widely
practIsed for many years, Will enable new
lecturers to assume ImmedlBte control and
mastery over their students and at the same
tIme to be admired as wondeTful people.

YOU'RE WORTH YOUR SALT
ONLY IF YOU KNOW THAT:

RACIST JOKE

OFFENSIVE JOKE

Howmany raCIsts does i t
to change a light bulb?

take

How many dead budgies does i t take
to change alight bulb?

Three. One to hold the bulb, two
to turn the ladder.

Three. One to hold thebulb,two
to turn the ladder.

SEXIST JOKE
How many women does
change a light bulb?

IN JOKE
i t take to

Three - One to hold the bul b, two
to turn the ladder.

How many Hernandos does i t take
change a light bulb?

to

Three. One to hold the bul b, two
to turn the ladder.

POLITICAL JOKE

SOCIO-ECONOMIC JOKE

How many Conservatives does l t
take to change a llght bulb?

How many communists does i t take
to change a light bulb?

Three. One to hold the bulb,
two to turn the ladder.

Three, One to hold the bulb, two
to turn the ladder.

TECHNOLOGICAL JOKE

PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE JOKE

How many liT lans does i t take to How many jocks does
change a light bulb?
change a llght bulb?
Three, One to hold the bulb,
two to turn the ladder.

it

take to

Three. One to hold the bulb, two
to turn the ladder.

4

1. For a perfect gas. the pressure coeffi-

cient Cp may be expressed in terms of
the free stream Mach No. and the
velocity ratio.
2. The length of horizontal line joining two
points is the abscissa of the point on the
right minus the abscissa of the point on
the left.
3. Natural or hyperbolic logarithms were
invented by Napier of Merchiston in 1914
4. The differential equation
x 2y" - x(2 + 1/x)y' - (8 t2/x-1/x Z)y
=

-4

+ 3/x +

cos (2/X2)

has a regular singular point at infinity,
5. The reference-input elements comprise
the portion of the feedback control system that establishes the relationship
between the reference input and the
command.
6. Imran Khan plays cricket for Pakistan
(and Kapil for India).

