UNSER SAQE

UNSER SAQE
ensure that the boys are at least decently
outfitted? We can follow the practice of
lIT Kanpur where the track-SUIts are returned
after the Inter-liT If a student takes part In
three mter-IiTs he keeps the track-SUit

The year that has passed has seen the
wll1ds of change sweepIng every corner of
the globe. CataclysmIc events of historical
Importance and far-reaching consequences
have occurred which threaten to change the
world's destinY. In our country too we have
witnessed upheavals with Immense social.
political and economic ramifications. Amlost
all thiS stands our Institute, aloof and complacent. ImpervIous to Its environs. No
doubt, the advent of our new Director has
seen some changes
being
IOltlated,
Welcome as they are, they are not enough to
make UP for the years of benign neglect the
student sector has sulfered from lime and
again we have stressed the fact that as far
as student facilities are concerned we are
way behind the other IITs. ThiS was all the
more eVident during the recent mter-IIT
meet held at Deihl We had the mortifYing
spectacle of the students of other IITs proudly struttmg about in their Impressive trackSUitS whereas our boys, the champs' had to
go to about in rags (ilteral/yl) Our authontles take great delight In tom-tommg that
our boys have done It agam" Can't they

In past Issues we have recorded our
ImpreSSions of sister Institutes, the most
pervasive and overwhelmll1g one bell1g that
there STUDENTS MATTER. A natIOn's true
wealth lies In ItS students. If today, our
Institute has prestige and .standmg In
domestic Clnd international Circles It IS
because of the fund of respect and admiratiOn created by our students wherever they
have gone. Let thiS fact be remembered by
our higher echelons of admmlstratlOn the
next time they trot out some excuse for their
tardy progress In Implementll1g some longdelayed reforms One more thmg we would
like to pomt out IS the endless harassment
of students by bureaucrats and the., procedures, At present there IS too much of
red-tape and administratIVe meandertng at
every level. Too much authOrity and
responSibility IS being conc21ntrated In the
hands of a few who. even If they do have the
mclmatlon, do not have the time to expedite
matters directly concernmg the students.
What we would suggest IS decentralisatIOn
01 authonty so that student representatives
have far more powers and are not mere
errand-boys. ThiS Will go a long way In
redUCing work-loads as also vestmg In these
representatives the necessary powers to
galvanlse the pace of events. Progressive
as our Director IS known to be, we are sure
our pleas WIll not fallon deaf ears and the
New Year Will see some changes for the
better.

I) As It IS Tightly said It IS mandatory that
the students and the faculty must have faith
In pach other
It should never be a one-way
process In liT-Madras If the students feel
that the faculty does not have great faith 10
the students the reverse IS equally true
(II) As a member of the faculty In thiS Institute I very strongly believe In objective
evaluation of each course by those credltmg
It (III) I fall to understand why there IS so
much delay 10 giVing the fmal results and
grade cards to the students. The best
approach would be complete decentralisation
by which each faculty member responSible
for the course shall hand over the final grade
to the academiC section wlthm two or three
days after the fmal exammatlon.
THE STUDENT GYMKHANA:
We have better fmances than liT Kanpur
from thiS year onwards One must agree
that With the additIOnal funds that have been
sanctIOned by the Director. part could be
used for the creation of new actiVitIeS which
have been thus far unknown In thiS campus.
AMENITIES IN THE HOSTELS:
A proposal has been recently mooted to
Introduce fans In each one of the hostel
rooms At least the new hostel Will have
fans when It starts working Though It may
Dear Ed,

Atcreatlve matenal IS nol something that wakes up
one fme m.ornllIg to tmd Itself suddenly creallve The
potential for creativIty has to be detected and nurtured
8t a very eorly stage AbDUl 30 per cent of Ihe school
schedu'e can be made avallabla for mdlvlduatlOn I a
the system of educallon can hillp a student ilncountilr
hIS own IlIlerests and pursue them
Maybe he can
be the ward of an understanding and mtelligent IlIVestlgator durmg the penods of hiS speCialized study This
may brlll9 In ItS wake a few practical problems but an
expellment III thiS direction IS essential
The tlslectlon mode for 8 research student needs
reVISion drastically In West European countlles no stu
dent IS taken for granted
A professor however high
hiS ratlllg IS available for long diSCUSSions With a
prospective research student It IS not surplisllIg that
such a student spends quite a few days In the laboratofies Inierogatlllg lind questioning the co-workers of the
professor concerned
The prof III turn, gets a chance
to falhom the CUIIOSlty ancllhe pOlentlal of the student
The Simple system of allotments gives flse to a strong
probability of a slUdent being thrust upon an unWIllIng gUide and vice versa
In research IlItervlews In our
Insmute, for Instance, a student IS Wllly-nl~ly about
the chOice and grabs the hrst offer thai comes to him
for the Simple re"SOn It is prestigious to do research
mllT
Research courses Can never be an arbItrary assIgnment The student and the gUide can diSCUSS and
allive at conclUSions regardlll9 courses
One also
tends to blame a student for not takinG stock of a
course to POint out Its ,"adequaCies or even, liS
lIIelevance The feed-back from the students IS most
Important III matters such as these
Un less one ushers III a system that IS foolproof
With reference to the quallW of staff and students,
II IS difficult to think of 'Ialltude on a time scale
FinanCIal assistance can be e~tended beyond four or
five years of research In a svstem that has cerlalnly
reached some proven standard
To take too dark a view of Symposia or Seminars.
IS unJusllfled It IS true that organizational problems
<like looking after the personal comforts of a fanCied
delegate) take toll of the energy of Ute hosts whQ
tend to Sideline Issues like the quality of seminar,
ItS effectiveness etc With a proper emphaSIS on
pnontles symposia can stili be an artery of sCientific
communication
The doctoral commIttee has to compllse researchers
who have done relevant work In the fIeld of students
they assess It wcn t be a presumptous step If the
student and the gUide deCIde the compOSition of
the committee that can objectively view the work

Dr. B, VISHWANATHAN.

I haVE l'Ead thE: articlE on liT Kanpur addrE:ssE:d b~ G.M.K. RaJu anel Bindu Madhavan.
It Is In thE rlaht PErSPEctiVE If I plaCE somE 01 m~ ViEWS to thE l'EadEI's of Campsstln'lEs
GENERAL:

ThiS IS In response to a diSCUSSion on creativity and
a few aspects of research II' the article (entitled 'In
search of CreativIty) Ihat appeared In the firat ISSUB ot
'Campastlmes

not be necessary to have a canteen In each
one of the hostels, It is defll1ltely necessary
to establish at least two Kiosks at the two
ends of the hostel sector A proposal to
construct slich Kiosks IS under conSideration.
STUDENT-FACULTY INTERACTION:
I am very much In favour of haVing Counselling Service for the students More than
thiS as I have already mentioned In your
eariter Issue of Campastlmes, It IS preferable
to allot a group of 6 to 8 students to a
faculty member hVlng In the campus who
Will act as the 'local guardian'. Any personal
problem could thus be solved In a more
elegant and calm manner and there Will be
greater student-faculty interaction.
PART-TIME JOBS:
We are now conducting a survey on parttime Jobs available on the campus As soon
as the survey IS completed we plan to
prOVide such Jobs to finanCially needy
students.
LIBRARY:
On Library I feel no more than 10 books
should be lent out to any person irrespectIve
of the person being a faculty member or
student
Generally It so happens all the
best books are taken away resulting In severe
disappOintment for those seeking books
In the Library
Also If a person IS In need of

*

Chemistry Dept.

a book urgently he will not have access to
good and more recent books.
RESEARCH
FEES:

ASSISTANTSHIP

&. TUITION

It JS in the Interest of the Institute that the
Idea of research and teaching assistantships
IS Introduced. ThiS way any scholar getting
thiS assistantship will have to work a certain
number of contact hours as a technical or
research assistant. ThiS way we do not
have to appoll1t many technical assistants
who fll1ally aspire for higher pOSItions In the
Institute and thereby creatll1g the most
unwanted inbreeding. I would definitely
say that most UniverSities In the Western
World hate the Idea of mbreedlng, At least
thiS programme Will have a tremendous
Impact on the SCience department which has
a substantially large number of research
scholars. Durmg the f,rst two years of his
stay as a scholar In the Institute he shall be
deSignated as teaching aSSistant and durll1g
the later years as research assistant thereby
compellll1g the students to contribute to
teachmg and laboratory operations.
I agree It IS really a sad thing that we do
not have a canteen worth Its name where the
students, faculty and staff could go and have
a decent cup of coffee.

Dr. P. T. MANOHARAN
D~Bn,

Student AII_"s

News has filtered to us about the superb dinner you had recently at the Director's house. How about US? When's our turn?
Aggneved Students (II.T.M)
(Ed: JIll SUch qUEriES shOUld bE tOW81'dS Mrs Illdll'ESan, not \151)

I

5

