FOR PRIVATE CmCULATION ONLY

Ten pages

C’ampoat/971as
Vol. I, No. 4

IIT Madras, l5th November, I962

l0 nP.

A CALL To THE YOUTH
AN ASSURANCE TO THE NATION
A CHALLENGE TO THE CHINESE
EXCLUSIVE T0 ‘ CAMPASTIMES ’
People talk all the time ; and of all sorts of
things. But these days it seems there is only
one subject that occupies the mind of everyone who talks. As the tempo on the border
increases we shall talk more and more of the
Chinese aggression on our Northern borders.

It is this subject that is occupying more
minds than anything has ever done so far on
the sacred soil of our motherland.
Every man is voicing his opinion on the
subject. Everyone has developed an almost
instinctive hatred for the Chinese, (not that
they don’t deserve it)and is ready to lynch them
if he could. The nation is, for the ﬁrst time
beginning to understand that it is a nation.
The ﬁght with the Chinese is a momentous
event, not only because it is a question of
integrity and honour of the soil we feed
ourselves from, but it has made every one thus
fed, realize that he is an INDIAN.
This may seem absurd but I can assure you
that the Chinese attack has done more for
our country than could all the Councils of
National Integration, all the seminars on the

subject, and all the national leaders combined.
But that is as far as the advantages of the
Chinese attack go.
The pertinent question that every sane person with all the backing of reason would ask
is, ‘ What have we done, or what are we going
to do about the monstrous menace on our
border?’ We are all well aware of the fact

that uptill now we have only suifered reverses;
the Chinese have been moving slowly but
surely further and further into the Indian
territory. It is all very well for the politicians
and statesmen to sit and ponder over the
friendly relations that once existed between

these two countries and hope for a peaceful
solution of this problem.
But the pulse of the ultimate force in the
country, ‘ the people’ is beating a different
tune. To their so called ‘limited vision’
there is only one solution and that is an all
out open repulsion of the enemy on all
fronts with all the resources we can muster up.
There may, however, exist a small, nay,
insigniﬁcant portion of the people who may
tell you that Huen Tsang once visited this
country and called it great and glorious, and
that somewhere in the early ﬁfties Mao TseTung called us a mighty nation and said that
a great friendship had been the symbol of
Sine-Indian relations for centuries.
These people may even be hoping to see
these good old days again. But, they are
living in a Fool’s Paradise, and like a fool do
not know that it is so.
What counts, is the present, the time of
action, and not the past, which is dead.
Once the people have solemnly pledged
their support to the cause of an all out war,
the government has no right to delay the
action. If they claim to represent the nation,
(Continued an page 2)

A Question

of Policy
The Chinese have extended their aggressive
tactics to the far ﬂung quarters of NEFA.
Every sector of this frontier of ours is under
heavy ﬁre and military patrol. The pressure
has steadily grown, the shooting has spread
and our brave jawans have shed their blood.
There is, now, no time to talk of SinoIndian friendship through the ages ; of HuenTsang and other Chinese scholars walking
across the barren Gobi Desert to Study and
learn at Indian Universities. This is, now,
no time to talk of terms of principles and
policies ofnon-alignment. After all, alliances
and non-alliances are not really matters of
policy. Not in a time like this ! Even
Britain formed alliance with Communist
Russia against Hitler. Was it then a matter
of abandoning policy? We should not blink
our eyes and say that there is no war, because
it has not been declared. There is, now, no
time for anything but for action. Organised
action.
Ever since the Chinese ﬁrst clashed with
Indian Troops in Ladakh three years ago;
since those nine soldiers gave their lives at
the purple altar that commanded them to
action; ever since, and even more so now the
people have responded to the Call. The people are whole-heartedly behind the Government—prepared to take any steps to repel the
intruder—to annihilate the expansionist.
From every section of the nation has come
a readiness to sink personal differences and
grievances. Furthermore, the drive to donate
blood for the pall—bearers and safeguarders
of our extended frontiers only goes to show
the extent to which feeling has been roused.
Humble people from all sections of the
population have given away their hard
earned savings for this cause. When the
shoeshine boys of Delhi donated their entire
days earning or when the Jubbulpore Prison
inmates donated blood and decided to fast for
two days, they gave of their own accord,
not because they were asked, but because they
realised that now He was an INDIAN. It
has to be, not 4.00 million Indians ﬁghting
their lone battles but ONE INDIAN ﬁghting
the aggressor.
The Chinese have levelled charges, as also
the Russians that ‘this dispute is the legacy of
British Imperialism’. May one ask, how can
(Continued on page 2)

