[November |5th, I962

CAMPASTIMES
A Call . . .——(Continuedfrom page I)

BAD BAD ALMOND v
EYES

they must justify it by doing what the people
want them to do.
Any delay at this stage shall mean further
intrusion by the Chinese into our land, the
land we hold sacred, the land we prize above
our life and blood. There are no two ways
of looking at the issue. It is now clear that
the policy of ‘ Defensive Defence ’ is useless
and shall remain so for ever. What is needed
is an ‘ Offensive Defence ’ and any one who
hesitates to undertake it should be branded as
what he obviously is, a traitor. It is the only
way of telling everyone that the price of
crossing the frontiers of this country is death
and anyone who does so shall be annihilated.
Today the history is testing us by its inevitable repetition. We must show the world
that we have learnt its lesson. We are a
country that has been ruled by the invaders
for almost a thousand years just because we
refused to learn the lesson of history. It kept
on repeating itself and we like the incorrigible
fools were always caught napping.
If even this time we do not prove that we
have learned from experience, we shall be
doomed, for that is the fate of all nations
which refuse to understand history and act
well in time.
Muslims, British, and now the Chinese.

Mao has made the ﬁnal and fatal mistake
of his pick—pocketeer’s career. One tends to
think that he is a bit of a masochlst, as this
time he is going to get his hand chopped off 1
in the bargain. His aggression on our country
is the last straw.
The Chinese leaders, however, consider
this to be a clever move. By an invasion of
India they hope to cover up a sex ies of miserable failures in their own country by diverting ,‘
,the energies of their population. Combined }
with that is an urge to spread the ideals of ‘
Marxism into the world’s largest democratic
nation, a young India that never has, and never
will tolerate anything that threatens its
integrity.
When communist China came into being,
it was a common feature for them to organise
mass parades and demonstrations with placards
and banners to tell everyone of the brilliant

future of their country. They thought a large
population was an asset. They have, however,
begun to see light after a series of miserable
economic failures, famines, and a mass rush
by some of their more intelligent inhabitants
to Hong Kong in search of food, a thing which
Mao and his gang of characterless stooges
(e.g., Chou En-Iai, who at one time actually
had the audacity to profess friendship towards
India) could not provide for them under the
rule of the brilliant Communist regime.
A country that has not been able to take
over Formosa has come to attack us. If they
think they have an army sixteen times larger
than ours, I may tell them that under present
conditions one of our soldiers is equivalent
to ten of theirs, and given modern equipment,
probably double that ﬁgure. They have yet
to meet the brunt of our armed forces, the
ﬁnest ﬁghting men in the world, ably proven
by two world wars.
President
to maintain
the case of
The whole

Kennedy said once, ‘ The struggle
freedom is a lonely battle.’ In
India it is not going to be so.
nation has responded to the call

No, that is a bit too much and if we swallow

this one we might as well stop calling ourselves a Nation, because in any case we shall
cease to exist as such, in a very short span of
time.

Chinese wall, and that is where we shall send

them.
Every voice in the country should tell the
Government that its needs arms and ammunitions and nothing else. Every life should be
sacriﬁced if need be to save our independence and integrity.
Some great man has
said ,that ‘the price of freedom is eternal
vigilance ’ but Ibeg to disagree. The price
of freedom is only one thing, and that is blood.
If we have failed to shed it for attaining
independence, we shall shed it now to main-

tain it. Let every one know that we shall
not tolerate the imprint of an aggressive
foreign foot on our soil and that we shall
wash it with blood if need be.
Let the Chinese be aware that the whole of
the Indian Nation shall ﬁght them to the
last man.
I close this article with a tribute to the
people who are now defending our motherland against all odds.
R. S. SBHGAL

1.
ten-m

c: xanptqmze m.
\O; 100 Joe
The photo and map on pages 1 and 2 have been
reproduced from the German weekly ‘Die Zeit'
No. 43, dated Oct. 26, 1962. We consider the
map as very informative, although we disagree with

‘
‘
i

Kashmir representedas not being part of the Indian
Union. The legends mean: ‘ Umstrittene Gebiete’
= ' disputed areas ’; Kampfgebiete ’ = ‘ areas of
ﬁghting ’.

>
‘

drew a line which now, the Chinese refuse to

recognise does not justify their stand. This
boundary has existed for centuries simply
because where mountain barriers exist, the
crest of the range deﬁning the water shed
becomes the dividing line. The Chinese have
widely‘ accepted this deﬁnition of boundary;
but in certain parts of the eastern extremity.
During the Second World War the Tibetans
refused to allow either Chinese or British
soldiers to violate this line. When India
, gained freedom in 194.7 the Chinese Govern—
ment enquired whether India would or would
~ not honour these obligations. India said she
would do so. She has. Burma and Nepal
too have had trouble. Even Russia has had
to deal severely, even if silently with China.
The ‘ Brother Comrade’ has run amuck
again.

. .... . n:

The only argument that politicians can
offer for not ﬁghting is the ruin of our ‘Five
Year Plan ’. But it is rather strange that they
fail to see that in trying to save one plan we
might lose the very objective of all planning,
the spirit of our very existence, our very
independence.
Looking at the anxious young faces glued
to the radios for every news broadcast it is
strange how anybody can misread the feelings
of the people.
The rising generation of this country dem—
ands only one thing and that is action. It
knows that its blood is boiling and it wants
every one else to know it too. We, the
young people of this country want to make it
very clear in very unequivocal terms that our
blood is waiting to be shed for the defence of
our motherland and we shall jump to action
at the very ﬁrst call. Let no one be under any
misconception. We want to ﬁght and that
is what we shall do. The very ﬁrst opportv
unity we get, we shall tell the Chinese in the
language of ﬁre that they belong behind the

i

‘

Most of the inter-varsity sports meets are
being cancelled because of the enormous
expense involved. Why should we not take
a tip and get all the four IlTs to contribute
to the Prime Minister’s Defence Fund all the
money that we propose to spend at the InterI.T.T. meet at Kharagpur this December.

Chinese charge us with lies! We charge
them with lies ! But will this do? Of course
not. When we have dealt with them quietly
they have refuted even the basic policies.
In words they still follow the Panch Sheel.
This, however, as they understand it

the polity of peaceful co—existence.

to defend our land. This is, however, not
the time for our students to go about holding
demonstrations to voice their opinions and
give vent to their feelings at the outrage. Let
us do something really constructive. No one
should have the chance to say that in a country
of over forty crores of people even a single
Jawan died because of lack of plasma for
transfusion at the front. Let us, students of
the I.I.T. Madras. organise a mass blood
donation and set an example for other colleges
and Institutions to follow. Until the time
when we may be called upon to sacriﬁce our
blood at the front, we should do the next best
thing.

SURJIT RANDHAVA

is not

But :—

(i) further estrangement between India
and her neighbours.
(ii) extended military actions along the
Indian Frontier.

jAWANS’ FUND

(iii) spreading of confusion of names and
regions.

A General Body meeting of the Staff of the
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras,
decided to donate one day’s salary to the
Jawans’ Fund.

(iv) creating an impression that India is
the aggressor.
A Question of Policy—
(Continued from page I)
this charge be justiﬁed when India is a neutral country with no leanings towards imperiaism i That a surveyor Gentleman McMahon

(v) ﬁght to negotiate.
to put forth the Panch-‘a’- sheel simply,
policy that is strictly militant.

The students of the Institute had earlier
collected Rs. I,5oo.—for this Fund.
a

ANAND SINGH BAWA.

l

Already about 200 students have volunteered
to donate blood for the Jawans’ Blood Fund.
—(Campartimes New: Service).

