November ISth. I962]

CAMPASTIMES

Itan ian cariCATu res (4)

The Dreamer
I put my weight against the single panelled
door that led into the air-conditioned ofﬁce,
and as

R. S. SEHGAL

Randhir Singh Sehgal is, as someone put it,
a ‘ character ’. He is deﬁnitely one of the
most eccentric (sorry, I forgot Nutty) fellows
in the Institute.
His accomplishments are much and varied.
First of all in the realm of literary activities
he makes his presence felt. In the Annual
Group Discussion competition his was
almost a solo eEort. After a few valiant
attempts, the other four gave up and con—
tended themselves with making a few interjections in the middle of his eloquent ﬂow of
words. (Incidentally, their team came last!)
He is a versatile speaker in debates and very
popular with the audience. His jocular and
forceful manner of speaking has the audience
laughing time and again, although it singularly
fails 'to make an impression on the judges.
Probably the only game he plays is tabletennis. While in Guindy Hostel in the ﬁrst
year he has had the dubious credit of having
given the Registrar a love—game.
He is a voracious reader and consumes all
varieties
of literature avidly. Reliable
sources tell us that ‘ Blitz ’ is a ‘ must ’ for
him, and that he holds very strong political
views. He is a regular columnist of Campustt’me: (ﬁfth columnist?) and his repertoire
ranges from poetry to short stories. Intimes
of need he turns critic, too, and his literary
attempts in that ﬁeld are very severe, being
more of a tirade than a criticism. And they
are scarcely compatible with the poems like
‘ Dejections ’ and ‘ To My Love No Longer
Mine ’, which be contributed to the Institute

Magazine.
He is probably the only boy in the Hostel
with a back door, meaning thereby used to
get in and out of the room. The dexterity
with which he climbs up the drainpipe to his
room would put a monkey to shame.
Lately, with indefatigable energy he has
taken up the post of Representative of Third
Year Chemical Branch (God help them!).
M. V. R.

A Civil Lecturer was so inspired by the
following poster he has seen during his recent
rail journey that he applied it to solve a persisting problem in IIT for faulty members.
Less luggage
More comfort
Make travel a pleasure;
Less verbiage
More facts
Make correction a pleasure

soon as

a

crack formed, the door

suddenly gave way with the blast of cold air
producing a distressing temperature gradient
between my chest and sweat drenched back.
On the reverse swing the ugly hulk of a yellow
shock-absorber stretched the squeak of the
hinges into the room. He was sitting with his
foldedhands resting his head and a pencil
(blunt,I noticed) twirled in between his ﬁngers.
He had his back to me but from my ﬁve feet
eight inches I could see the involuntary kicks
his right leg, crossed over his left, was executing as if it was being hit by an invisible
patella hammer.
He was evidently dreaming, and why
shouldn’t he, after all, he was being paid to
dream. Paid a little over two thousand a
a month as chief designer (or chief dreamerwhich was more apt). His job was to dream
up new ways to—it was all hush hush and
tied up with defence.
I tapped gently on his shoulder and his
rubber soles helped him onto the Linoleum
carpet. He turned in my direction and for
a good two minutes, that was all. He was
looking through rather than at me and ﬁnally
grunted a surprised ‘huh’ I
‘Oh! Hi—come and sit down, coffee 3"
‘Ice cold please’, I said and ‘whewed’ while
adjusting the louvers on the air-conditioner
so as to direct the cold blast down my wet
back.
The chief dreamer jabbed the intercom
button and ordered three glasses of cold coffee.
‘Why three P’ I ventured.
‘One for my Assistant who’ll be coming
in shortly’.
‘How is the project chief E‘ ’ I asked in an
attempt to get down to business.
‘You'll see for yourself.’ His smug expression told me all was well. He looked at me
with raised eyebrows and the very informative silence accommodated only his stare and
the hum of the air-conditioner.
I turned around and read ‘chief designer’
in reverse from right to left through the
frosted glass panel in the door. I could just
discern a movement on the other side. The
door opened a crack and was poised precariously between the indecision of the person
on the outside and the excess pressure on the
.inside of the air-conditioned room. It ﬁnally
opened with a swish of air and sari. ‘Chief
designer’ telescoped into the edge of the door.
‘Good afternoon. I’d like you to meet Dr.
Vardhan’. I bowed slightly. ‘Dr. Vardhan’,
he continued, elaborating the introduction ‘is
interested in our project eighteen. You could
show him the shock tube and the rest of the
set up. It will not be necessary for you to
explain. He’s an expert himself on the
centrebody problem’. I did not mar the
obvious effect it was having on her by denying the fact.
‘Thank you’, she said as I opened the
door for her. ‘It was unnecessary for Chief to
tell me you’re an expert. I’ve read your

She ﬁnished her coffee, excused herself and

disappeared before I had taken the glass out
of my lips.
‘ It’s deadly hot ’, I observed, and the chief
seemed to appreciate the implication.
‘ Well. Vardhan, what do you say ’, he
smiled and ﬂopped into a chair.
‘ The project’s alright —— we will go down to
Cryogenics later. Say, the ﬁbre optics idea
was neat.’
‘ Her idea ’, he said, cocking his head in the
direction of the door.
‘ Tell me about her, chief.’

‘ It will take all afternoon, Vardhan.’
‘ I’m listening ’, I prodded.
I’ll call her S. The last
three years have been the most fruitful in my
life of thirty-ﬁve years’ Vardhan.’ I thought I
noticed a change in his expression. He became more rigid as he spoke.
‘ When somebody loves you and that love
is not reciprocated, it’s the most boring thing
in the world. Boring, that is, for the person
being loved, but for the lover it can be a soul
shattering experience. Coy indifference, playing hard to get, anything goes but not obvious
boredom. That is a stage when you are alone-—
giving something that is notappreciated—What
is worse, something that is not wanted.’
‘ I suppose you think this is childish. May
be it is, but I’ve been inﬂuenced by a number
of modern writers and thinkers. What follows
may not all be entirely original but I sincerely
believe in these ideas. They have been with
me for over four years and since you asked
for it you’ll have to listen.’ He was sweating.
‘ I wonder if you have noticed, the most
creative people are profoundly sexual. Sexual
in the non-biological sense. They are the ones
for whom a mate is reserved in the world.
And until they meet their chosen mate, they
are incomplete human beings and can never
work at full horse-power. OS. is different. One
might be tempted to think that she’s wedded
to her work. No—she isn’t. She’s got that
kind of intelligence that thrives on competition. If there is no ﬁght—there is no work
for the brain. All one has to do is to set her a
problem as a challenge and she will crack herself open trying to solve it. But one thing is
certain, she will never set herself a problem.’
He recrossed his legs.
'
'
‘ I’ve looked at her from the cruelty angle
too,’ he continued. ‘ Both possibilities — her
either being a sadist or even a masochist. She
is neither. She is one of the kindest people
I’ve met. Does favours for people—helps
other peoples’ children with their homework—
suggests science projects for the high school
kids. Masochist—nope. She’ll enjoy herself
at parties—go out when the weather is ﬁne
and even accept a dance invitation from a
male.’

‘ You’re clean off the mark, chicf,’ I said.
‘ Masochism involves mental torture; not
going to parties.’
‘O.K.’, he agreed, ‘ but mental torture has its
physical manifestations. Denying oneself the
good things of life is merely one of the ways
to express it.’
‘That’s just it, ’ I said, ‘ She’s torturing
herself mentally but takes care not to show it.’
‘ Uh huh, you’re the one who is out this

papers in the Journal.’ ‘Thank you’, I reci-

time. All masochists are show-offs, Vardhan.

procated. So it’s ‘the Journal’. Quite a com—
pliment for a relatively unknown publication.
I pulled myself together as we walked
along the corridor. ‘My assistant’ he called
her. Couldn’t he have at least told me it
was a lady?
‘Are you also—er—interested in dilfusers,’
I asked cautiously.
‘Well, it depends on what kind of diffusers.
If they are the inanimate kind the answer
is yes, but if they happen to be human
(especially male, I added mentally) the
answer is deﬁnitely no.’
‘This is the Exploding Wires set up with the
ﬁbre optics pick up.’ She pointed to a corner
and I noticed she did not wear bangles.
Forty minutes later we were back in the
ofﬁce.
‘ Well—how did it go ? ’ The chief had his
legs on the table.
‘ Neat ’, I managed to say.
‘ Incidentally you people forgot your cold
coffees.’

They have a lot of self-pity in them. They’ll
go out of their way to show that they are
unha
They are highly emotional people,
waiting, literally longing for affection and
love. Most of them want this love and affection to come from some one of their own sex’
I disagreed.
‘ Well, anyway ’ he continued, ‘ that’s
beside the point. I’ve known her for a long
time and in different circumstances. I have
never really understood her. And, another
thing, if it was a male acting this Way I
wouldn’t have bothered. But with her I’m
forced to seek an explanation for her
behaviour ’.
‘ Is she reiigious ?’ I asked.
‘ I don’t know for sure, Vardhan. She
believes in God and all that and occasionally
comments on Ramakrishna Paramahamsa’s
teachings. If by religious you mean interest
in Vedanta and stuff like that I suppose the
(Continued on page 6)

