CAMPASTIMES

[November |5th, I962

NEWS AND VIEWS

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

SURJIT RANDHAVA
Rain, rain, and yet more rain.

EDITORIAL
China has launched an aggression on our
frontiers in Ladakh and NEFA. It is an
aggression into which has gone much pre—
paration. For all that it may remain
undeclared it is still a war, a war that will

test us both—the people and the Government as we have never been tested before.
China has achieved a massive superiority in
numbers; our troops may have inﬂicted
heavy losses but as yet the Chinese have
overwhelmed them and we have had to
abandon some of our posts. Against all
odds India has asked for arms supplied from
abroad to fully repulse this vile and treach—
erous enemy.
The heart of the nation is sound and with
its troops. The Nation has prepared itself
to meet this Pedantic enemy. Contributions
and donations have poured in from all sectors
of the population. From shoe shine boys,
prison inmates, ﬁlm actors and producers,
trade and labour unions, schools,

colleges,

industrial magnates, members of the Cabinet
and State Ministers. Donations of blood
have not been lacking, rather in places storage
of blood is becoming a problem. People
have been recruiting themselves voluntarily
for the forces to an extent that volunteers
have had to wait days on end in queues for
their chance.
We will have to face setbacks. There
will he reports of heavy casualty and further
loss. There will he reports of victory. We
shall and must bear all news that is disheartening and exhilarating with soundness.
We must not lack. The only alternative to
resistance

shall,

have us

on

our

knees.

That shall not happen.

.g/Z/ @7
All bodies have magnetic force;
That goes for you and me, of course,
And though your mass has little weight,
Towards you, my dear, I gravitate.
My rate of falling, or resistance,
Depends entirely on your distance.
Were I to venture half way nearer,
Attraction makes you four times dearer
Because it gains in force for me
Inversely to square, you see.
And now that I’ve explained the rule
Of Newton’s that we learned in school,
Permit me by that splendid law,
Still closer to your side to draw,
Ah, yes! I feel it growing stronger.
I can’t resist the pull much longer;
Nearer and nearer, inch by inch,
I’m tugged by the compulsive winch.
You, too I We touch, We merge—we’re
kissing I
Dear Me, what weightless folks are
missing I
NORMAN R. JAFFRAY

Sorry!
We regret to announce that not a single
correct entry was received for last time’s
cross—word The Square Dance. Hence nobody
gets the handsome prize which, incidentally,
was-a free trip to Europe. The clues, quoting Prof. Sankaran, ‘ were very simple ’.
Correct rolution : Across: 1. Singh, 3.
Sihota, 5.

Sehgal, 12.

Randhava, 13. Tom,

14.. G TWO, 15. Rajamani.
a. Nutty,

4. Talu,

6.

Diwali was rather subdued this year ; prima—
rily because our consciences would not allow
us to have a roaring time with so many of our
countrymen giving up their lives trying to
restrain the yellow hordes. All the same, the
Hostels were ﬂoodlit at night. Some crackers
were exploded, mostly on top of people living
on the groundﬂoors, and in the rooms of
others. I may add that Kaushik can also give
you a lecture upon ﬁre-cracker safety.
Sehgal, undaunted as usual, came up with
the idea of launching ﬁre balloons. Hopping
on to his bike, off he went to Saidapet and
came back with tissue paper, glue, and bamboo.
Sad to say, in spiteof the help given this young
Montgolﬁer by a variety of technicians, he
only succeeded in setting his balloon on ﬁre.
Hectic preparations are going on around
the Institute in expectancy of the West
German President’s visit in the beginning of December. The open-air theatre
will be ready sometime this month. This
should also help the Film Club who are
once again out on the street searching for a
suitable location to screen their ﬁlms. The
trouble with having a monthly magazine is the
time lag that occurs between the time when
news becomes hot and the day when we go to
press. After the last issue went to the
printers, the Film Club did manage to ﬁnally
show ‘ Indiscreet ’, although I had reported
to the contrary in my column.
The Institute has a deﬁnite potential for
rowing. Some of our boys are members of
the Madras Boat Club. Basu John won the
maiden sculls event in the last Boat Club
Regatta. Kapur is rowing in Senior Fours,
and there is a chance that he might represent
the Club at the All—India Regatta. We are
all just waiting for the time when we have
our OWn facilities for rowing. They are
there in the master plan alright.
The two main roads in the Campus have
been named ‘Delhi Avenue’ and ‘Bonn
Avenue’. Incidentally, a person well-versed
in German geography told me that in Bonn
the roads are not big enough to be called
avenues. Instead, they have the handle
‘ Strasse’ and ‘ Gasse’ attached to 'them.
In plain English these mean ‘street’ and
‘ lane ’. It is also rumoured that the banyanlined road past the Electrical Block is likely
to be named after
Maxwell, in which
case, if we carry on like that, the strip ad—

joining the Heat Engines Lab will become
‘ James Watt Avenue ’ and so on.
A staff member who knows all the secrets
of Electricity, conﬁded in me and told me a
rather interesting tale about the unconnected
exhaust-fan in one of the Civil Engg.
Building bathrooms. I will not divulge the
' story as it might only shatter the morale of
the Electricity Board.
Talking about bathrooms, have you noticed
the gradient of the ﬂoor in most of the ones
attached to the Hostels? An elementary
course in Hydraulics (without even having to
undergo the rigours of Mr. Chandrasekharswamy’s Fluid Dynamics) makes it ‘ watery ’
clear that liquids ﬂow down a slope. Why
is it then, that even without any clogging
the pipes (oriﬁce effect) the water always
manages to stay ankle—deep in the wrong
places P

Down : I. Suri,

Mehrotra,

9. Inder, Io. Kapoor, II. Cobra.

8.

Sid,

DIFFERENTIATION UNDER

The last

month beat all records. The whole campus was
absolutely ﬂooded; the fun starting when a
water-soil mixture of deceptive consistency
began trapping a lot of unwary engineers, cars,
and cows. Miss Ziauddin was a victim of a
Teacher’s Trap just outside the well-known
Science and Humanities Block. News has it
that she had the misfortune of stepping into
athree foot waterﬁlled ditch. Where, may
I ask, were all the Sir Walter Raleighs P

I could carry on in this vein, but the
Editor wants the manuscript in about ten

INTEGRAL SIGN
Dear Editor,
Art is divine, natural and can be appreciated in whatever form or language, provided
the spectators or audience are enlightened
enough to do so. The above mentioned
point may be ampliﬁed by the fact that a
Gentleman from Germany was able to appreciate plays in Tamil and Kannada during
our last Institute Day celebrations: If a
German can do so, why not an Indian P
But the Cultural Council of the Institute
Gymkhana seem to have completely forgotten, or rather ignored the letter of
appreciation from the German Consulate
regarding the Tamil and Kannada Dramas.
So, considering the talents exhibited last
year by the Tamil and Canarese Troupe’s
everyone feels that they should be given a
chance to exhibit their art in Kharagpur.
This may also add to a variety in Cultural
Programme. Sending a Hindi Drama Troupe
from the South to the North is to carry coals
to Newcastle.
Further, at this present moment when the
youth participation in National Integration
meetings is demanded everywhere such types'
of differentiation under the pretext of Integration by the entertainment sub-committee
of the Gymkhana is meaningless.
May I appeal to the President of the
Institute Gymkhana to lift up the iron curtain
which curbs the interests and talents of
budding artistes who are ignorant of Hindi
and allow them to exhibit their skill and
come offwith ﬂying colours ?
Yours,
JUSTICE.

ON CONTRACT!
Dear Mr. Editor,
Afew weeks back all of us were happy
about the Russian neutrality in the Indo—
Chinese border dispute; this dispute develop—
ed into an undeclared war, Russia was sitting
on the fence keeping many guessing about her
attitude. We also fondly hoped that our com—
rade Russia would support India against
China. Unfortunately for Russia it was a
question of standing by an ally or siding with
afriend. We were dismayed into declaring
,a national emergency when ﬁnally Russra
threw the friend overboard and staunchly
supported her ally.
The politicians were ﬂabbergasted, but the
sociologists and psychologists anticipated this
for long. After all, when all is said and
done contractual relationship is stronger than
camaraderie.
Are we not familiar with the traditional
quarrel between daughters-in-law and mothers—
in-law, and the sons jettisoning their mothers
in favour of their wives? Do you know the
reason ? While you acquire your wife through
a contract, your mother didn’t (shall we say
couldn’t) enter into a contract with you to
bring you into being.
HUMAN RELATIONIST.
BORING 8r LOUSY
Sir,
A black bread needs buttering on both
sides.

‘Contains the most boring and lousy
articles.’ Anotice.
I am referring to your last issue of
Campastimes and I quite agree with the
gentleman who put the substitutes on the
above notice. It has forgotten the main
objective for which it was started and
minutes. Somehow, they always manage to
push me around.
Idea of the Month : If the Chinese don‘t
make a rapid recovery of their senses, how
about an I.I.T. Peking, complete with periodicals and all the rest of it ?

