CAMPASTIMES

November l5th, I962]
Letters—(Continued form page 4)
contains more of ‘ Newspaper Cuttings,’
‘ Homage to Leaders ’ and information regarding latest books in the library. There
are already three notice boards in the library
and I am sure they can manage one more for
such things and leave us some space for
something useful. Asl hear, there are no

Owed

articles coming from the residents, I would

suggest to cut the size of the paper from 8 to
six pages and keep up the standard. Ihave
all praise for your feature ‘ Personalities of
the Month ’. Hope to see a better demand
for the next issue.
Idea of the Month—How about a treat to
our new M.Sc. Pals ?
Thank you.
V. K. BATRA.

FIGURE IT!
1. A B D when divided by BxB in two
stages gives C F E'.
Find the numerical
value» of each of these symbols.
B

ABD

B

BCA
CFE

2. Find the missing ﬁgures. Bear in mind
that each ﬁgure represented by a dot is one
less than the ﬁgure above it with the exception that when the upper ﬁgure is r, the one
below it is 9.

28 o 5

3. A and B are two spheres of diameters
24 and 18 cm respectively. They are as shown
in the ﬁgure. Find the ht. of point of their
contact above the ground. Don’t do this
graphically.
A

4. Now we will turn the letters in the
following addition into the ﬁgures they
represent.

BADC
BCBD
_ADE—D
As he had been working late, and was
feeling dazed, Prof. Octagon ascended to his
bedroom by the curious method of going up
4. steps and coming down 3.
He continued this erratic course until he
reached the top of the stairs and he found
that he had mounted altogether 40 steps.
How many steps were there in the ﬂight ?

—-V. RATTAN Beau.

Answers will be published in our December
138142.

2

0F dye-Aye 750
Before we shift the focus to the hostels,

it might not be altogether inappropriate
to spotlight the canteen. It appears that it,
too, is subject to Parkinson’s Law. Notwithstanding the Annexe, an alcove has been
constructed within the ‘Main building’ to
accommodate the expanding kitChen (according to current speculation). There has been
a sort of three dimensional change in the food
stuffs. Higher prices, smaller quantities and
worse quality. It has been taking advantage
of its inconspicuous location to escape inspection by the Public Health Department.
0 compensate, the authorities in the
Institute ought to insist on minimum
standards of cleanliness. The decision of
the Film Club not to display its posters near
the canteen is too feeble a protest. ‘Ashok’s’,
however, continue to live up to their reputation for ‘outside catering’ with special
coffee, lunches and snacks served to staff
members in their departments.
Sometime ago, it was pointed out that the
‘ A ’ wing of Kaveri Hostel had a crack from
the roof to the foundation at its junction with
the rest of the building. This has now
widened, the reason being that the tail end
of the wing is sinking. How about ‘asking
Jacks about it ’1
It is time they had garbage cans to dispose
off the rubbish and waste paper that collects
in bands following the contour of hostels.
The problem is, however, not as acute as that
of the stray cattle that invade the premises
around 7.00 p.m. (and consume the paper i).
Herds of sheep seeking shelter from the rain
line up in the. verandah's and dirty the whole
place. It is time they took the bulls by the
horns!
One of the roads has been lit up. The
fact that the visit of the- West German
President is only a month away could not
be mere co-incidence. Just goes to show
that things, like lights, get done only with
ﬁllips !
V
The M.Sc. physics students are reported
to have been quite shocked at their timetable. It is rather tough to reconcile Atomic
Physics with Drawing and Workshop. With
the memory of cold chiseling still very fresh,
the last mentioned ’item will certainly inject
the sense of chivalry back into the male
part of the M.Sc’s!
~V.S.
a:

*

a

ME AND CHESTERTON
Inspite of the repeated requests, from the
students and the staff together—~the rubbish——
that is on show in the premises of the I.I.T.
main building,—no effort has been made to
remove it. Thef unnier part of it iswit
is kept against the narrow way that leads us
to the Physics block.
I got off my bicycle fresh under the morning
sky, and moved in past the wooden gate that
stretches past the Civil Engineering Depart—
ment. God perhaps could not put up with
my merry person. I did not more the rusted
iron piece strutting out of the oak box imported from Germany to make a special study
of it under the auspieces of the Civil Engineering Department. It got against my pants
ﬂuttering in the wind, and when I trodded
over, it was all over. A huge patch came
off. Alas ! my new pants were gone. In
the midst of laughter and fury, (I did not
know what to do next). I struggled hard to

5
decide what to do next. I: rushed back to
my room with the patch on, to hide it out.
One I thought of seeing} the I.I.T. Maintenance Department. That time, Chestertons’
words came to me. ‘ Any inconvenience is
only a convenience rightly considered.’ A
man who sees in such things an opportunity
for enjoyment is much more logical than the
one who grumbles at anything and everything
that goes against him.
Patadoxically quotes,,another ‘Too much
of a fun ends in monbtdny’. With this,
may I request the corresponding authorities
to take notice of it and do the needful.
‘A man running after his hat is not half
so ridiculous as the one running after his
wife.’ But it is not the same in private life.
S.K.
a:

a:

are

As usual I sat in the last bench, waiting
for the lecturer to come in. I had studied
half of last night for a periodical which
was just over. I lay my tired head on the
ask.
The lecturer came in. A howl from the
students greeted him. This perplexed me.
The lecturer started taking attendance.
Every name “as answered by a number of
voices.

After the farce of roll call was over,

the teacher went to the board. No sooner
his back had turned, than a barrage of chalk
pieces, and a paper plane landed on him.
The teacher wheeled round. His face was
livid with rage. He shouted, that if the
persons who threw the things did not
stand up, he would abuse them. Nobody
stood up. I will not give you the words
our respected teacher used then, but it
would put a hardened labourer to shame.
What was happening? Had my friends
and teacher alike turned mad? I was contemplating on this and as usual trying to
put the blame on atomic explosions and
radioactivity, when I felt somebody shaking
me. I woke up, to ﬁnd my friend shaking
me as the class had started.
Relief ﬂooded me; after all he was just
one of those neighbours.
I was silly to think it could happen in
our midst.
—R.

Dear Reader
I am happy to say that our appeal has
met with some response—I am not
politician enough to use the word ‘overwhelming ’—making the future of
Campastims look a little brighter. It is
on the way to become your monthly with
every new name added to those that are
well-known by now, too well—known as
some off-stage critics recently remarked.
Nothing against critics and their
criticism. On the contrary, we intentionally invited them to voice their opinions.
But why off-stage? Campastz'mer has
reserved space for them, unlimited (and
uncensored !) space. Why take a member
of our Board asidewith a hush-hush ‘Boy,
Two Views was the best you ever brought’
or

‘ You

know, that Editorial

was a

stinker ’ P Is it that much trouble to sit
down and write us a letter saying what
you appreciated and what not? I am sure
you wouldn’t hesitate a minute to pen out
a two-page letter (single space), if your
landlord accused you of having ruined
his walls by driving ten inch nails into
them at random (which, of course, you
haven't).
Your criticism is just as valuable for
us as your contributions. So, don’t
hesitate and send us your Letter to the
Editor ’.
Yours etc.

The Publisher.

