CAMPASTIMES

[ November IS‘th". I962
The Dreamer—(Continued from page 3)

© n.

(

LLY‘V‘GS

Curves and contours conform to the cosmic
law; squares and straight lines are the making
of the mathematician‘s mind; form and substance are given to them by engineering
idiosyncrasies. These by-products of human
ingenuity claim the right to co-exist with
divine creations, but in vain.

The closer man

gets to God, the greater is his realization
of his futile attempts and aspirations. You
talk vaingloriously of the tremendous destructive potential of the atomic or nuclear power.
How sure are you, may I ask, in your
capacity to end what God has begun and not
ended? On calm consideration you will be
convinced that only the impermanent things
you have created like squares and rectangles
will be destroyed and not the permanent
creations of God, the curves and contours.
Ironically, the very destructive force you have
released, mushrooms itself into a mighty
column of magniﬁcent curves, unsurpassed in
its beauty and awe inspiring magnitude.

Have you ever had time to forget your
daily worries and contemplate on God’s
creations in heaven or earth? You will be
amazed to ﬁnd that all the inﬁnite variety of
enviable creations which go in His name have
one common feature, the curve. Are you not
surprised at this statement of the obvious P
Take the case of the celestial bodies, the

stars, the sun, the moon, the earth and the
planets. Are they squares or straight lines?
Have you seen the pictures of Mercury or
Mars, Venus or Jupiter or Saturn or Neptune?
Don’t they represent the beauty of curves
and contours in myriad forms?
Have you seen the glory of the sunset and
the grandeur of the twilight sky ? If you sit
alone and observe the horizon, you will ﬁnd
the different forms and shapes you have
dreamt of all along on the brilliant cloud
formations of gold and silver. What do you
say to the magniﬁcent arc of nature’s wonder,

the rainbow? It is the unimaginative scientist who cuts a segment of it and presents it
as a horizontal beam to explain the phenomena of vibgyor.

and

cutouts

Take any creation of God in this terrestial
world, the hills, the valleys, the rivers, the
trees, the ﬂowers, the fruits, the birds, the
ﬁsh, the animals and thou, man. Tell me,
tell me please, a single instance wherein God
has ever recognized your squares and straight
lines ?
How beautiful are the birds with their
curved beaks, arched necks, bow-like body
and beautiful plumes! Have you not seen a cat
stretching to relax itself and forming a wonderful pattern of wavy curves?
Are you awarethat every human being possesses curves, ill-formed or well-formed as

they may be, and is it not the curves that made
the human ﬁgure an adorable object for
artists, painters and sculptors from times
immemorial? Can you imagine what contemptible creatures we would have been, had
He made us square or rectangular? It is in
a tailor—made suit that we look square and
ugly and not in God given frame or suit, the
skin. Do you know the anatomical shape of
your backbone of which you make a metaphorical nonsense by talking of it as if it
were a straight one? You need not necessarily bea narcissist to appreciate the curves
of your own body; without mincing words,
may I ask, can you deny the delights of the
undulating curves of our female species ?
Do you know curves command respect and
carry with them a dignity of their own P Is
there anyone who has not envied the muscular
curves of an Apollo or the fragile features
of a Venus? Have you not dreamt of possessing them to win few hearts and inﬂuence
many P What have you to say to the delightful curve of a developing abdomen of an
infanticipating angel? Does it not symbolize
the dignity of motherhood and command
your respect in spite of your vulgarity P
While curves soothe our sensesrsquares
.hurt our sentiments; If you ﬁll a beautiful
landscape with squares and rectangles at every
turn, you offend the ﬁner sense in us and
pollute our reﬁned tastes. Are we not
emotionally disturbed at the sight of a drab
square or a dull rectangle jutting on to an
otherwise serene campus P Allow me to blind
your eyes (bind them, if you please) and place
before you two huge blocks, one of square
and the other of a sphere, and ask' you to
trace its surface in succession. When you
trace the surface of the square, you get a rude
shock at the ﬁrst turn and your hand descends
precipitously causing emotional disturbances.
How will you feel tracing the sphere? ‘You
anticipate the shock you received a while ago,
get relieved when you don’t receive it, and
get reassured as your palm slides smoothly
along the curvature with feeling, and you
end up regaining your balance of mind. Do
you know I am not exaggerating P
Let me appeal to you, my dear engineers.
I anticipate your arguments along the lines of
utility and economy; but do you know that
utilitarians could not hold their ground for
long in history, and you don’t hesitate to
throw economy to the winds to suit your
convenience P You may call us idle dreamers
utterly devoid of a realistic approach to practical problems, and style yourselves as pragmatists. I wonder whether you are right in
your claim or in your accusation. Yet I
appeal to your ﬁner sense——you have one and
may not be aware of it—let there be some
moderation in your mad designs. Do you
want me to remind you that it is this ﬁner
streak in some of you that has led to the
evolution of the struggling school of architects who pin their faith on planning the
buildings to ﬁt the landscape.
I am convinced, as any other right thinking
man, of the futility of squares and rectangles;

but I am also convinced that your ego will
not willingly quit the world of illusion you
have created yourselves. May I, therefore,
argue for a compromise, for a 'happy and
harmonious synthesis of utility and beauty in
your architectural designs, Let us remind
ourselves of the old adage handed down to us
by farseeing seers: ‘ You cannot plug a

answer is yes, but I wonder if she has ever
been to a temple.’ ‘That reminds me’, he
continued. ‘She once told me that relativity in its quintessential form was known
to the ancients four thousand years before
Einstein. For, I believe one of the Upani—
shads has a passage which says ‘ Yesterday
I dreamt I was a butterﬂy and I believed
I was a butterﬂy, how am I to know that
today I’m not a butterﬂy, dreaming I'm
a man’. And then she went on to give
quite an involved comparison between the
‘ Truth ’, the speed of light and the theory
of invariants ’.
‘ That probably explains it ’ I said though I
wasn’t convinced about it.
‘ Explains what? ’ he countered.
‘Her behaviour. She’s probably one of
those who has an ultra high ‘ Karma Yogi’
outlook on life.
‘In that case,’ he said ‘how do you
explain her working in a department that
specializes in war ’.
looked around and spied a poster
showing a man with his hand to his mouth
like one of the three famous monkeys and
declaring ‘ keep oﬂicial secrets—secret ’
What the dickens, I thought. Here I
come to ﬁnd out about progress on project
eighteen and have ﬁnished up listening to a
lovesick man trying to explain in scientiﬁc
terms and involved Freudian psychology
something that was downright obvious. He
was in love with her and she wasn’t, that
was all—why can’t he leave it at that. But I
had asked for it.
.
The digital clock on the wall said 5.08
and’I got up to go. The dreamer did not
notice. He was looking past me and did
not look as if he would respond. I let
myself into the corridor and the irritating
squeak of the door hinges bade me good
night.
.
A few weeks later I went up for breaktfast
(It’s a topsy turvy house I live in—the dining
room is upstairs I) The papers hadn’t arrived.
A slight drizzle and the paper boy thought it
was time he went into Noah’s Ark. The papers
ﬁnally came, soaking wet.
Fifteen minutes later I was out of the dreamers oﬂice. There wasn’t anyone there and I
rushed down to the labs. A section of the
dividing wall had broken down and the tube
itself was a twisted wreck. The dreamer
was at the far end of the room, hands in his
pockets.
'
‘ What happened ’ I blurted.
‘ The shock tube exploded’ , he said simply,
‘ How ’ ?
‘S. was working here the whole of last
night. I was called in at 3 a.m. I don’t
know exactly what happened.’
‘ How is she ’, I asked.
‘ The funeral is at 11 a.rn.’ He was looking
at me. A hand rested itself on my shoulder.
‘ Death is a funny thing when you come to
think of it. ’ >
-‘Funny P ’ I noticed he had cried a little.
‘ ya—its exactly four years to the day since
S. and I were divorced, Vardhan ’.

V. SIDDHARHA.

round hole with a square peg ’. If you insist
on it, what can we do ? All we can do is to
give you ideas knowing that you don’t reign
supreme in the realm of ideas. If you are
bent upon ignoring them by calling us idealists
we have no other go but to praise your
vanity and subscribe to your ego and evolve
a compromise in the larger interest. After
all, compromise is better than complacency.
We know you will realize the wisdom of the
Curves in the long run, but in the long run
all of uswill be dead and gone. Would you
forgive me for saying that what you need is
not ethics or economics but aesthetics?
V. ANANTARAMAN;

