CAMPASTIMES

November l5th, I962]
A short study of the nature, growth and
troublesome behaviour of ‘ periodicals ’
during the period extending from the

year 1959-1964(Probable thesis that might be submitted
after the initiation of arts courses in the I.I.T.)
The records reveal that what had started
oﬁ as monthly tests of the knowledge acquired by the students and humbly designated
as periodicals had, within the space of afew
months, acquired grim proportions. Soon
the ‘ periodical ' became an institution as
inseparable from the I.I.T. as the N.B.C.C.
cement went to make up its buildings. Its
importance as a factor affecting the day-to-day
l life could not be too much underestimated.
’ (Providing, as it did, frequent jolts that kept
\ the students wondering: ‘ What next P ’)
Periodicals were, in essence, the window
to a student’s mind, revealing the extent of
his study, the permeability of the material of
his skull and other things in similar vein.
At least this was the view held by those who
were responsible for its creation and execution. But they constituted only a minority
(there having been many defectors from this
school of thought). Soon after such a thing
as a ‘periodical’ made its presence felt, a
theory (hay, a law) was put forward that ‘a
‘ periodical ’ did not admit of the rigid deﬁnition supplied above. On the contrary various
shades of meaning could be attached to it,
depending on its regularity of occurrence,
its subject matter, its mode of correction and
the like.
Thus onegentleman decided that it was ‘ a
national emergency on a campus scale (what»
ever that might mean) to be met with the
fortitude and courage of a Pancho ’._ The
previous night he had read ‘ Don Quixote ’
and got his characters mixed. Another
gentleman seemed to say ‘ Oh i come, come ’
for he came forward with the brilliance : ‘ A
‘periodical’ is something which can be faced
even if the thinking apparatus exchanged
places with the seat of one’s pants ’. (It came
. to be known that it was disgust and not lofty
disregard which had made him say those
words). Still another person who prided
himself on always taking a broad view of
matters piped out indiscrectly, a “ periodical,”
like lovers’ “ parting tears, is bitter sweet “—

raising nostalgic memories and food recollections—after graduation l’ The next day
they dredged every lake and pond .in the
neighbourhood, needless to say, without
success. He had gone home for the week-end.
Like a tumour developing gradually to
completion in' absolute disregard of the
inconvenience and loathing caused to its victim
the ‘ periodical’ rose from importance to
importance though its monthly frequency
remained static, to .the relief of many. Its
growth was attended by strange phenomena.
Many students who before entering the I.I.T.
were apt to be easy-going became changed
men (many didn't, of course). As often,
sometimes, as four times a week they could
be Seen walking into the classroom with their
noses buried deep in some text-book and
piously muttering phrases of Greek and Latin
(close hearing revealed them to be vituperation, par excellence, unmatchable in its rich-

ness and mode of delivery).
At other times, for down in the corridor, .
it was possible to hear what sounded like the
death rattle of a hundred poisoned men. This
merely signalled the arrival of the lecturer
with a sheaf of paper under his arms. More
often than not, there would

emanate from

classrooms sounds of an entirely different
nature, sounds with a tinge of wild joy in them
almost as they would hold the lecturer aloft
ina chair of human arms and cry, ‘ Bravo!
Well played ! ’ Explanation=the hour had not
given birth to an expected ‘ periodical ’.
Sometimes such sounds bear no relation to a
‘periodical’ but merely indicate a longing forthe
great open spaces in preferenCe to the didactic
company of the lecturer.
The troublesome nature of ‘ periodicals ’
stands undisputed by either the students or
the lecturers. On the students side records
reveal that while one of them is peacefully

7

studying the aesthetic aspects of a glossy covergirl (mostly attired in her birthday suit)
another barges in ruddy and announces that a
surprise ‘periodical’ is in the offing. The reaction is quick. There are no questions asked.
How ? Why P All these are immaterial. The
cover-girl drifts into oblivion and the mind is
occupied with matrices, Thermodynamics,
Chemical Kinetics and sometimes—the admirableness of one Crichton. At certain times
when caught off guard and the preparation
time too little the night is spent in designing
ways and means of reproducing the class
notes verbatim. It was proved by the medical
authorities that such sudden shocks and such
exercises of the brain were deterious to health.
In the year r964, attention was drawn (by
the students, of course to their failing health
and feeble output). Duly a one man committee came into existence (as committees do on
such occasions) and it summarized its ﬁndings
in the form of a graph with ‘time’ on
the Y-axis and ‘number of letters written
home ’ on the X—axis. The gradient of the
graph was shown to be steep thus proving
beyond all doubt, that the health of the
students was being undermined. (They were
so weak that they didn’t have the energy
to write home). Unfortunately, when all
this was conveyed to the authorities, the
suggestions of the committee were turned
down point blank and it was severe; unreprimanded—for the following reasons:
I. The committee appointed itself.
2. The sole member of the committee
was a student.
The whole affair was written off as ridiculous by the authorities. Thus when the
year 1964. came to a close, ‘ periodicals ’ were
still going strong.

The Law of the

Camp
The enthusiastic group of young N. C. Criflemen assembled at the Madras Central
was an interesting sight. The special train
leaving for Coimbatore enroute to Ketti
waited in the platform with the eager
expectancy of a seasoned campaigner. About
ﬁfty of us crowded and crammed ourselves
into all available space. The scene inside
the compartment was really a feast for the
eyes. Luggage was strewn here and there.
The heftier and seemingly stronger Ones
occupied the better seats leaving the younger
and weaker ones to crowd on luggage. Some
were sitting at the entrance. and as the
lights of Madras faded away in the distance,
the compartment came to life as sweet
music emanated from the inmates. The
tunes seemed to keep pace with the rollicking of the moving train. The train proceeded
towards the destination at a very slow pace.
The early interest of the journey having
ebbed, people began to doze off. Many
were the cadets sleeping with their outstretched legs on their neighbours and using
the friend’s shoulders as their pillow rests.
With

the stacked

riﬂes

on one

side,

it

seemed as if a battalion was returning from
the war front after a long struggle. As
the train steamed into CMB it was nearly
12 at night. We had been too early for
the next train to Mettupalayam after missing
the scheduled train. And like unwanted
brake vans, our carriage was shunted to
and fro and ﬁnally cast off a little away
from the main line. Not being satisﬁed
with our strenuous journey in the train and
forgoing our sleep, the U/os slept on the
platform like lords after instructing some
juniors to keep guard over the carriage.
Early next morning we left for Ketti and
as the train like a snake wound its way
through hill and dale, the far-stretching
plains came before us like a beautiful
landscape. It was thrilling to be in the
midst of Nature ! We were expected to be
in the camp site for lunch but the train
was so punctual that when we reached
Ketti at four in the evening, we were served

a cold plate of lunch (lunch in he evening l).
But hunger knows no bounds and like
famished lions, we ﬁlled our bellies.
A little after the initial commotion of
our arrival at the site, the question of allotment of tents came up before us. The U/os
found themselves in a happy state of affairs
after obtaining for themselves a tent for
just eight members, whereas all the other
tents were ﬁlled to the maximum capacity
of tWelve. The tiring trip had its effect
on the members. All of us went into
peaceful slumber and it was early (about 5)
when we were asked to get up and clean
the tents for line inspection. Later in the
day the commanding officer welcomed us in
his ofﬁcial capacity exhorting us to believe
that the life of a soldier in the cold Himalayan
frontier was similar to ours (what a
comparison !)
Many were the interesting incidents that
happened in the camp, each so unique in
its nature that it gave us an insight into
the mental'and moral character of people
around us. The actions (atrocities i’) of U/os
barring a few, was of a qestionable type.
Polishing the shoes and belts for these
officers was the painstaking duty of some
of the weaker cadets. When the rain water
drainage was in the process of construction
around the tents, I could see some ofﬁcers

lying in their cosy tents and give instructions
to

those around.

Like slaves,

we

were

expected to serve them but we refused to
proceed ahead till they joined the majority
in using the spade and the pickaxe. An
interesting feature of the camp was a mild
scrap between a senior ofﬁcer and a junior
sarge. Eating in tents was prohibited by
law and. when the sarge was found violating
it, the senior oﬂicer pulled him up, but when
the ofﬁcer himself was found using the tent
as his dining room, questioning him was
found to be a violation of the law. Perhaps
there are special laws for U/os and separate
ones for willing cadets.
During one of the parades, I was questioned
on the smartness of my ‘ turnout ’. Iremembet, Iwas wearing the last of three sets of
uniforms they had provided us (ﬁrst having
been crumpled during travel and the second
having gone to the washerman). The uestion was not a surprise at all, but what struck
me as a wonder was the neat‘turnout’ of
the officers. To my surprise I learnt later
that each had brought at least half a dozen
sets (no wonder the stores were empty ! I).
But every cloud has its silver lining—the
camp, too, had its nice moments. It was a
tough experience to the younger (and junior)
cadets but it was a thrilling one, too I Bawa
managed to squeeze himself into the Mess
committee and though food was not of a high
standard, he provided us with buns and
plantains every day ‘at least once.’ Durin
the route marches, we really enjoyed ourselves
trekking along the mountainous terrain,
singing at the top of our voices in a melodious
manner in harmony with the cool and
pleasant breeze. Our group was the proud
winner of the trophy for ‘ guard mounting ’.
The main string of the winning squad had at
least 4 cadets from our Institute.
It may be said in conclusion that the laws
of the camp as well as its upholders were a
little ungentlemanly—possibly that is the
military attitude to the various aspects of
camp life. An SU/o feels it his right to
bully the juniors because sometime ago he
was a victim. If he does not realise his
foible and stop it, this cycle will go on—each
set of ofﬁcers victimising the junior cadets.
Where a little courtesy would have obtained
a good name and perhaps encouraging
remarks, obstinate and selﬁsh motives marred
their otherwise good nature. A good ofﬁcer
should be a capable leader—not a harsh
dictator. Hitler was admired because he
was able to inspire his people to great ideas.
Napoleon, though short, was liked by his
soldiers because he was kind and just towards
the weak. Courtesy blended with kindness
and justice alone can make a good military or
N. C. C. oﬂicer—not just brute force.
VicriM.

