CAMPASTIMES

His Last War
The soldiers returning from the bloody
battle front were a jubiliant lot conversing
with each other of the happy home in their
own motherland. The train carrying the
returning batallion was slowly rattling along
the battered and worn out track. Yes! They
had been proud to go to the warfront to uphold the ﬂag of UN in its many manoeuvres,
but the sudden and cruel blow to their
enterprising leader had created a void in
their lives. Often they talked of his
valourous deeds and went into silent reveries
of their fallen leader. Some were absorbed
in a game of cards but all their faces beamed
with happiness at the prospect of a calm
ome.
Balwant Singh was sitting by the window
and smoking a cigarette. The burnt ash of
the cigarette was carelessly littering the soiled
uniform of this sturdy soldier. He looked
a man of might and the rough life of a
soldier seemed to ‘suit him. He had joined
the army as a sepoy and by his steady and
valourous service had reached the rank of a
sergeant. The bandage on his forehead was
still dirty and it looked as if the uncared
wound had become sceptic. The dripping
sweat across his forehead made the wound
seem a hineous one. He was returning
home after a period of nearly six years.

[November 15th. I962

stick and looked at him with suspicion asked
in a tattering manner ‘Who are you?’ Balwant
could not restrain his tears. He had
expected to see his mother much happier
and slronger. He could not believe that
Time was capable of such a transformation.
How could a mother forget her own son?
It was true that he had run away from her
house to seek alife in the army against her
wishes.

And at that moment,

he felt that

the three stripes he had earned were nothing
when compared to the great thing he had lost a
mother’sgoodwill. He could not utter anything.
He bowed at her feet and said ‘ Maji ’. Words
coming from the unknown depths of a sincere
heart need no more explanation. The feeble
hands of the aged mother were soon caressing
the young and ﬁrm hinds of this soldier
‘ Long live dear son’, She said as both mother
and son went inside the house and sat on a
charpoy. And as he walked through the
house, the past came up before him like a
forgotten picture. All he could do was to
feel sorry for his hasty action in running away
from home and leave a mother alone with
his sisters. ‘ Where are Sarala and Munnu ?’
asked Balwant. Tears came into the aged
eyes of the mother as she said ‘ They are no
more. The cholera in this village last year,
claimed them as victims. At least you are
safe, Iam happy’.
To live long- enough to see one’s own
children pass away is really the cruel and

ness, I was in bed with a bandaged forehead

and when I asked the doctor about Gyan
he said ‘He is no more ’. I then felt that
our ultimate success at that Bridge of
Ladango was mainly due to his inspiring
leadership.
‘ How sadl’, said the mother, wiping away

her tears on hearing such bitter news. And
it was then that she said ‘ Dear son! what a
nasty thing is war ? What a ghastly sight is a
battleﬁeld ! It separates a mother from
her

child, the husband from the wife and

causes untold misery to millions. How many
people did you kill during the battle ? Were
you not the cause of sorrow to many a mother
in some other part of the world? How can
you be so P A mother’s affection for her son,
is the same everywhere. Is it not? To rejoice
in the fact that you have caused the separation
of a dear husband from his beloved wife.
‘ How cruel . . . ’?
Each question that his mother asked seemed

to probe deep into his very nature as it were.
Slowly he rose and walked out into the open
ﬁelds even before the old mother could stop
him. He went straight to the HQ and when
he returned towards his home once again,
his face was beaming with some unknown
happiness. And as be traced the path back to
his home, he heard the temple bells echoing
in a solemn manner the commandments of
the Buddha
“Buddham Saranam Gachami,
Dharmam Saranam Gacharni,
Sangam Saranam Gachami,”
. . . Yes I! He had realised at last that
peace on earth and goodwill among men
was the Very basis of a happy united and
just world. He seemed happy in his civilian
clothes. Many months later, when he was
awarded the gold medal for bravery in the
ﬁeld Balwant had no hesitation in rejecting
it. He had come to abhor the very name
of war. He had renounced war and the life
in the army for devoting the rest of his life to
serve his aged mother.
KRIPANARAYANAN.

WIT AND WISDOM
OF HOWLERS
The other day, some dailies published a
news item by PTI reporting a few of the
bowlers produced by graduate candidates
who appeared for the test examination for
clerks conducted by the Kerala Public Service
Commission during x96o-6I.
How were his sisters and parents? His
aged mother would perhaps be waiting in
eagerness to welcome him. After all! He
was her only son to whom she looked forward to, in her old age. Perhaps these
thoughts seemed to make him smile, but
the tough life of an army man had made
him more or less a machine—A man without feelings—nothing but brute force to ﬁght
and kill without caring that those whom he
killed were his own brethren.
The train at last came to a halt and the
platform was soon a mighty ocean of soldiers
in their rufﬂed uniforms. With the riﬂes
lightly swung across the shoulders, and the
haversack behind them, they presented a
fatigued picture of army life. And one by one
the crowd melted away. Each soldier took to
to the path that led towards his home after
reporting to the HQ and depositing their riﬂes
and ammunition. Balwant Singh too walked
slowly across the green ﬁelds looking here
and there to notice particular changes. The
odd but of Ranjit was still the same. Ramlal
was still sitting in his ancient shop and as he
passed through the many streets of his little
village, many thoughts came ﬂooding to his
mind. It was years ago that he had run
through the very same streets with a feeling
of innocent happiness. And when at last he
reached his house, he paused for a moment
before he knocked. The door was soon
opened and from it emerged an old lady
bent with age and supporting herself on a

bitter trick of Fate. For a few moments, he
was stunned. He could not believe that his
sisters were no more. But he soon regained
his composure, for in that war he had learnt
that death was an inevitable and natural thing.
He had learnt this philosophy of life the hard
way. The mother was caressing her son but
as she felt his forehead, she was alarmed and

shocked and asked him ‘ What happened, my
dear son ’?
‘Mother, do you remember Gyan Singh
who was usually our leader when we played
police and thief? ’
‘ You mean Khuswant's son, is it not? ’ she
asked getting interested.
‘He was our commander during the warA nice man to talk to and a tough one to deal
with. He was in charge of our division when
we started our battle at Ladango. Our rations
were running short and we had practically
been surrounded on all sides by our enemies.
But this Gyan was adament in giving ‘ Forward march ’ orders.

I was proceeding slowly

behind him through brambled bushes and
past rocks when the enemy charged us
suddenly. Gyan was bayoneted and as I
bent down to take him on my shoulders
towards the camp, I was shot and with

a

shriek of agony, I fell down wounded. The
battle raged furiously around me for sometime.
The dark sky was often in a blaze of light as
grenades and explosives shattered the grounds
nearby. And when I regained my consious-

Apart from the indisputable fact that
howlers are not the privilege of Kerala
candidates only for whatever examination
they may appear, but are as widespread as
appendicitis and ﬂu (common or otherwise),
apart from the further fact that they are an
inﬁnite source of merriment to examiners
(whether they admit it openly or not) and
the general public who, if examined, might
not fare better (to say the least), apart from
all that some of these bowlers reveal—if
you take the trouble of following the zig-zag
of their reasoning—a state of mind which I
am compelled to recognize as bordering
wisdom. Of course, to make Kautilya the
wife of Dasaratha is a bit thick considering
the implications of such a marriage. Moreover, good old K. would have been too
shrewd to meddle with the affairs of Ayodhya.
But then: ‘Wool is an ugly animal ’.
Nothing truer than that! Ever heard of a
wolf in a sheepskin? Dozens are following
your innocent steps day by day. And what
is on top ofa sheepskin, man? Woolll And
is the wolf an ugly animal? You bet. Well,
there you are (Follow me? No ?? Read it
once more i).
‘Balanced diet is a diet to ﬁnd out the
diameter’. Diameter of what? My boy,
that’s the wrong question. Of whom P would
be more like it. I must admit, it may be 2!
(Continued on page to)

