A STATE OF
EMERGENCY
By T. S. Anunthu, our Special Representative rtalioned in Periodiculnagar, Capital of
Studentland (heavily cenrorcd).
Periodicalnagar, November :4 (Campasr
times News Service)-A State of Emergency
was proclaimed throughout Studentland
following the invasion by the Terminal Examinations. The invasion was expected only
in December, but in order to avoid the snow

that the Lubke clouds would bring, the unscrupulous enemy strategically preponed it to
November.
The attack began when the First Division
of the enemy forces led by Maj. Gen. R.
Natarajan, I.A.S., shelled the notice boards in
the Kaveri, Krishna and Narmada outposts.
Our forces fought gallantly, forcingMaj. Gen.
Natarajan to enlist new recruits, particularly
inthe extremely weak Physics Garrison, as
well as to promote T. S. Rajagopalan to the
rank of a Brigadier. But our forces had to
withdraw in the face of the brutal attacks
made simultaneously on all parts of the
country—the Ist, 2nd, 3rd as well as 4th
Years. The brunt of the attack was parti—
cularly felt in the 3rd Year, where the enemy
forces were led by the experienced Second
Lieutenant G.V.N. Rayudu who forced the
student prisoners he captured to design guns,
artillery and other military equipment
Rumours assert that he could not do it himself). Allthe lecturers and professors quickened
their pace of attack. Further aggression was
committed by tutors who made sporadic raids
with their tutorial sheets and homeworks.
The President of Studentland immediately
declared a State of Emergency. Under
emergency laws, production of military
articles like notes was stepped up. Students
decided to donateblood in the form of their
night’s sleep in order to preserve the integrity of their country. The Inter-Students
Daily Evening Sports Meet was cancelled.
The enemy declared an all-out war on
November 12th. But the brave students
did not panic, but instead decided to seek
help from all available quarters—particularly
from their neighbours—during the Terminal
Examinations in order to meet this national
calamity (‘ Unity is the call of the day ’, the
Prime Minister of Studentland declared in a
nationwide broadcast). Aggression is continuing at the time of going to the press.

THIS
worm

9

CAMPASTIMES

November 15th. I962]
Despatch from Studentland

nus
norm

I. Chinese forces invaded Indian
territory simultaneously from three sides
inthe Ladakh and N'EFA areas. The
President, Dr. S. Radhakrisbnan, proclaimed a State ofEmergency throughout
the country, Oct. 26. All parties in the
country, including the Congress, Communists
and P.S.P., stood solidly behind the Prime
Minister. Emergency steps were taken to
meet this menace to our nation.
2. President Kennedy of the United
States ordered a naval blockade of Cuba
following the discovery of the stationing of
Soviet missile bases inthis little Carribean
country. The Soviet Union protested that
the US. had bases in as many as 35 countries
around her. The situation seemed to preci—
pitate intoa major war, but it was averted when
Prime Minister Khrushchev agreed to the
dismantling of the bases. Bertrand Russel
hailed Mr. Khrushchev as the saviour of
humanity. Americans expressed relief that
there would be no missile bases so close to
their country.
T.S.A.

i
‘

H0w the Red Dragon.
lost his Tail or

How she put the Fire out
;
FOREWORD: My heartfelt thanks to Taluk—
dar but for whose timely help this rtary
would never have ended.
Once upon a time in the land of Dong
there lived a dragon. It was not a bad dragon
(as dragons go) and since it was not very
big nobody paid much attention to it. This
lack of attention made the dragon sad. But
as time passed this sadness turned to anger,
and as it grew the anger grew too and with
the anger came frustration and what was worst
of all was that it developed an inferiority
complex. Now this dragon with its inferiority
complex lived a very strange life. It used to
eat whatever it could get and it used to
spend most of its time going to the public
library and reading. But since it had no
guardians or friends it read all the wrong
sort of books and ﬁnally decided that the only
way to become noticed was to read the books
on communism.

nostrils. The dragon woke up with a choking
feeling and tried to breathe ﬁre but all that
came out were smoke rings. In the meantime
the girl grabbed the hatchet and chopped off
his tail. He jumped out of the library and
cloved the road. He couldn’t even make a
smoke ring any more. The people on the road
were not sorry for him, he had made himself
offensive to all of them. Eventually he came
upon a group of merchants he had particularly
annoyed by tearing up their wall street bulletins. They decided he didn’t look good as a
dragon any more, what with his tail gone and
no ﬂames to decorate his nose, The dragon
protested, but he hadn’t paid much attention
to all the protests that had been made to him
and he didn’t know quite how to express
himself. By the time he had thought up
something to say most of him had been
made into .
. little dragon skin handbags.
NUTTY.

Nationul (Dis)
Integration

Now, as time passed, the dragon read more

and more on the subject and became more
lonely than ever. But though the dragon
didn’t know it, there was one person who
cared for it. This was the shy little girl
who sat behind the desk and gave him the
books on communism. She really felt sorry
for it and against the wishes of her friends
and relatives gave him little titbits to eat, and,
when her parents were out, let him listen to
music. But the dragon wasn’t intelligent
enough to realise that the little girl cared for
him. Although she didn’t ask him for anything he thought she had an ulterior motive
for her actions and so he didn’t pay any
attention to her deeds and words of kindness.
Then one day the dragon got an idea. He
would make the little girl help him to get
noticed! So he tried to get the little girl to
introduce him to her friends and make him
a member of the DONG Recreation Club.
The little girl, thinking that the dragon was
trying to be friendly canvassed for him in the
club.
She 'was such a nice girl that she'didn’t
even speak harshly to him when he made
a pass at her or when he tried to convert
her to his way of thinking. When the
dragon snatched away her friends’ sandwich
one day during the lunch hour she was the
one who explained to her friend about the
dragon’s difﬁcult life. This unfortunately
made the dragon think that the girl was a
weakling who would submit to anything. He
did not stop to think that her behaviour
might be due to her ingrained breeding and
kindness. And so like all people suffering
from inferiority complexes he started to show
off. He used to stomp into the reading room
uttering loud oaths and was most careless as
to the way he swung his tail. He used to
breathe ﬁre and tear pictures of movie stars
from the magazines and make himself as
obnoxious as for a dragon to do. And still
the girl didn’t do anything.
But everyone can only stand so much and
when the dragon tried to leave his cave and
move into the library the girl put her foot
down. She ﬁrst reasoned with him and
found to her surprise that he didn’t protest
but apologised and shurk off. Then one
morning when she came into the library she
found to her surpise that the whole place
was in shambles. The books were torn to
shreds (all except the books on communism
which were being used as a pillow) and the
magazines had been burnt thro’ the night to
keep him warm. But what really made the
little girl angry was that he had used her
favourite magazine as a night cap to cover his
ears. That combined with the fact that he had
deceived her by breaking thro’ the back wall
made her see red. She grabbed the nearest
ﬁre extinguisher and started it working by
bashing the knob on his snout. Then she
proceeded to direct all the foam into his

I am an Indian ; every Indian is my brother
. . . The ignorant Indian, the poor and desti—
tute Indian, the

Bmhmin Indian, the Pariah

Indian is my brother . . . The Indian is my
brother, the Indian is my 11' e. India’s society
is the cradle of my infancy, the plenum garden
of youth, the racred heaven, the Varanasi of
my old age . . . The soil of India is my highert
heaven, the good of India is my good.
—SWAMI VIVEKANANDA.

. . . Autonomy does not and should not mean
disruption or that hereafter province: could go
the way they chose, independent of one another
and of the Centre. If each province began to
look upon itself as a separate, sovereign unit,
India’s independence would [are it: meaning and
with it would vanish the freedom of the various
units a: well. . . It would be fatal if it led to
narrow provincialism, mutual bickering: and
rivalries—between Tamil and Andhra for
instance, Bombay and Karnatak and so on . . .
' The world outside does not know them a: Gujaratis, Maharashtrianr, Tumilianr, etc, but only
as Indians. We must, therefore, resolutely
discourage all ﬁssipurous tendencies and feel
and behave as Indians.
—MAHAT‘MA GANDHn

Gentlemen,
Excuse me for deviating from my usual
topics of discussion and my usual method of
presentation. The reason is that I have come
across a much more serious issue—so serious
that I feel I must put it before you immediately.
I went as one of your representatives to one
of the Colleges in the City to attend the
‘ Seminar on National Reconstruction ’. What
I saw and heard there simply shocked me and
my colleagues. The seminar, which was
supposedly on National reconstruction turned
out to be one on National disintegration.
I knew all along that separatist tendencies
did exist among certain sections of the people
in this part of the Country, but I didn’t
know that they had penetrated this deep into
even the educated class—who, Mr. Nehru
says, are going to decide the destiny of the
Nation. Youjust can’t imagine the views held
by the students whom I came across. Un~
repentant parochialism, downright provincialism and dogmatic linguism are the only
words which can describe them. Their only
aim was to shout for a separate nation at the
top of their voices. They refused to listen to
anything that anybody of even a moderately
nationalistic attitude had to say. Anything
reasonable was just beyond them. Here are a
(Continucd on page 10)

