CT: How is the sponsorship?
KR: Last time we had big names, and this time we have Kutti Kutt1
guy~.
But basically the scene is cool. Conne~ara, Adyar G~te,
Opal Inn, stereo Vision, Ponds, Jamal, Sonodyne, Enfield, S~lver
sands, British Airways, Nippo, Indian Express, Hindm.
CT: But why havenlt the same 'sponsors come?
KR: We have earned a very bad na~e last year. Audioportre cassettes
and equipment were slightly damaged. Parry's banners were neither
displayed nor returned.
I believe Canty told the Taj people ~ "1:;e conned you guysll.
Actually they hadn't expected anything from the students at all.
Canty promised Chola tbat he'd put up a banner in the Ad Block 5th
floor" saying that "Just like when you enter Madurai, you will see
the Meenakshi temple, when ynu enter lIT., you will see the 5th floor
of .Ad Block". In any case, the banner was nIt put up at all. So~
they asked us to pack this year.
CT: How do you expect to rectify it this year?
KR: I've appointed one person for banners alone, Vibhas.
CT: About the tea$S that are coming?
KR: Around 15 or so. Those confirmed are LSR., Nt Carmel, AFMC ,
Fergusson. Somnath is doing great work for hospitality.

*

*

••• and what do you and me feel about MG'84?
a general sidey:- One of the few times I approach HSB ,.,it any
interest at all. And I hope the doe-eyed dears do turn up in
decent nu:nbers.
a 6/5 B.Tech. student:~ What's MO'a4 Machan, can any Mardi Gras
beat the one I had in my first year? (Sorry buddy, but our history
textbook doesn't mention any such things).
A Remesh:- Tt is not that I have a profound dislike for an
agglomeration of half-fazed out guys lustly bellowing for an
event they know not the name of~ but the actual point of contradiction
is that my personal horizon of awareness is not in allYV1ay stretched,
and hence there are other things I would rather dd like finding
an alternative solution to problem 1 .35 in Haykin.
KG Srinivas: Actually I look for"vard to six days of solid
mugging. AGRE machan.

-oO(

)00-

