CAMPASTIMES

Summer 1971]
CAM'P.4STIMES ALMA DOESN'T
MATTER DEP]

13

MUTUAL ADMIRATION DEPT-U

THE DARLING OF THE

SPOOK DUMP
L\ke I could say a lot of things about
Mr P C Venkatachdam Like I dunno
whether I ought to say them 'Cause, as
It says up there, he's the darhng of the ~pook
dump And an.'one, who knows anythtng
about spook'l L.no,",s It am t safe to scnbble
nasty th\ngs about the darlings ot spooks.·
Actualh, It Isn't hke yOll think It I:. The) thmk
be would make a very nice girl (Ugh I)
BeautIful curls Let 'cm grow a h'l more and
"c'U tIC a pony tall With a. ptnk nbbon
Just goes to show spooks don t know what
guls are made of
It wilsn't always thIS WIly Balu chooses
different aCtiVIties each year Fnst}ear It was
muggmg and dramatics AU enthu about both
of them A wee bit of talent at filing, some
okay hne "ark and a lot of Ja:zzy language
and he had sneaked hiS \\ay mto the Merit
hst The dramattcs-(hey, don't tell thiS to
the spooks He's had It, then f)-started
way back m school Shirley dolled him up
wto a grand 0\' lady Balu, naturally, played
the part to perfection HIS dramatic actlVtties here ha\ e been of a different nat uTe He
dr~ed U\' \,eoplc as cal e women and let
'em loose on the stage (1 never did recogmse
that person).
Next) ear he sWitched to wntmg for the rag.
lIe'$ stl\\ not ver) sure "hether he did the
fight thmg It's like thiS A body wrHes for
the rag and he has some bore or the other
tellmg hun It was crap. UntIl. the next
tssue comes 'Vhen It starts all over agam.
Smce Dalu filled In half the mag, he had
to put up With a lot of It WhIch may be why
he eased off and started on short storJCS
and Monstracs
Or so an outsider would thmk The real
t'C3SOn IS classIfied Ulfo Btl t I better not He
maintain'S thIS dOSSIer on me and I don't want
to provoL.e him mto ret:Ulatmg I know thiS
IS the last ISSUe-ali the same
The shun
stones were never put up for l'ubhcatu)D
Monstnc n how~\er was-p\!t u? fOT ..how It
was a blg}ol..e S.)t1le of the thirteen odd guys,
wbo were hauled off to ESB at unearthly
hours like two 1D the morntng to bang nads
mto wood \\"hoever heard of compulers
bemg made thIS wav But Balu did make
one What s more, he had the gall to put
It up for the SCIence FaIr Everybody who
earne got a loud round of what It was supposed to do No demo And then the Judges
came Dld a very dirty thmg SaId they
wanted to see It work EV'er heard of a
chunk of wood plus a maze of wife addmg
nIDe and four) J3alu gave them a pamed
look and fiddled WIth a few wooden knobs
Somewhere a coupla bulbs lit. up PIomptly
our man also ht up and s~lId, • There
Thlrteen' They gave hun a Un of chocolates
Fourth year they made him editor So. In
addItIon to WrIting the rag, he took tne stuff to
the press, (hd the proofs lind dIstrIbuted
the copIes He bad meetmgs and attended
partIes It was at one of these parties It
started Sln~e then, the spook dump's been a
home away from home for him You can't
blame the girls He's got that rather charmmg way of askmg • Another spoon of
sugar ? " that makes It Impossible for a girl to
say no, notwithstandmg the fact that she's
already shoved SIX Spoons of It mto her coffee
(that explatns why the Kmck Knack guy
IS gOing grey) Anvway, the grapevine gives
It that he hall a rOGm out at the spook. dump
He ,",on't tell anybody (Of cenam Says
he win be In a mess If Jyot1 or papa get to
know about It They'll make hun pay rent for
that room, too

-AAJoo

• I found out It's fairly safe Only It Isn't
good for your health to go about c:alllng 'em spooks

a
•

t

s

As the Icc-cream vendor comes lOto the
hostel shouting 'Aeyees. aeyees,' the hoatel
suddenly erupts mto a chorus, • Payees,
Payees. and out pops Jerome Vlctor PaiS,
the 'big sec of Jamuna, rather scantily clad
In hiS one and only • NO.9' yellow athletICS
vest, which, we have reason to beheve, was
once white
VIctor PaiS 1S known for Ius repertoIre of
tongue-t\\lsters and bram-teasers H,s latest
bemg, • Data Kontrol DDtt of a Modified
Demonstratl.on-Plll'pose DIgital Computer'which, inCIdentally IS hIS project He brags
of haVIng only one reference for thiS compllcated proJect-hIs project mate

He halls from the West Coast and no wonder
hIS greatest amhltlOn IS to answer the call
'Westward Ho r' HIS name must be In the
files of every Amencan Umverslty Right
noW, he IS In a dllernrna as to Which UniversIty
to grace With hiS presenCe It IS a pity that
only one Ufliverslty wdl have the pllvdege
of saymg that JVP also hved here
Let us tum to Victor, the Sportsman.
Volleyball. being the 'm' game back home
and habits being difficult to shed, as ~
fresher, he turned up regularly for practtce
and, naturally, made hIS entry Into the
Institute team BelOg ba;,lcaUy clever, he
left the game honourably lookmg for greener
pastures He put on gloves and emptied hlS
fury tnto the punch-bag, and to hIS horror
dIscovered that that was what he was mad~
for Steadily he climbed to the captamcy of
the Institute team, wmnlng aU but one bout
In hiS four-year boxmg career
H:: Jogged
Elteadtly and steadfastly to budd up stamma
and 10 I What should he eye but the deer
jumpmg about gracduUy at the stadium and
our I.hum got hls bram-wave He took hIS
hurdles and slogged WIth dogged determInation Hard work pays, they say, and he
proved hIS pomt by rompmg home vlctonous

Jerome Vlctor has rIght from the start
been an mtegral part of the SOCIal and
pohttcal actw1t1es of the lOstltute. Famtlles
make nations and wmgs make hostels He
had hIS humble yet noble begmmng In being
adJudged the most active member of hIs
Two years' expenence as Sports
wing
Secretary, coupled WIth hIS COnSCientious
campalgnmg paved the way for hiS bemg the
G Sec of G Secs Tne Meet has been the
event of the year and he played a vital roleby supplYing the 'Vital catones' to the
athletes In hIS hostel

10 the final selllester of hIS final year
VIctor Pais turned a 'Leo', somethmg whIch
Will keep rum occupIed even after he leaves
the Institute Also It provIded hlffi With the
prl~e opportUnity to display hiS orgaOlzatlonal
ablhty and to continue hIS good old Job
behmd the counter of the Snacketena
'

True to hiS name, Pats IS very plOUS Not
a Sunday passes by, Wlto.out the Immaculately
dressed PalS, punctually domg the hop-stepand'Jump from the mess to the bus HIS
destmatlon, he says, IS the church, but lately
It has been under review.
ThiS bnngs Us to the romanttc adventures
of thIS l]JustrJOus soul •Behmd every man
thete IS a woman', thtry say, but Pi\\S has
proved otherWIse Many a tune he has beel}
seen. belllnd the falr sex Ask him about It
out comes the casual, nonchalant reply-' Ab.
what a C()m.~ldence' All l>ald and done he
feels there will be many more years t~ go
befllre he Will be leadmg a mlSSUS. (Let's
hope he IS not led before)
On the whole, llTlans, especially JamUDaltes, Will mIss a very remarkable man In
J V Pals- Let's hope he drtfts westward
and leaves hIS mark there as he dId here

v. P. WA.'TSA.

