He ran further to the western perimeter and the fence.
was no one there.
his eye.

There

He turned, but something caught the attention of

He sprang back and saw two small diminutive black figures

staring out at him in fear over the barbed wire of the vegetable
garden of the prison.
Hate welled up in him again as he saw the two black kids look
at him.

These were the vermin who had butchered his beloved ones. He

lifted his gun to fire and then his eyes met the eyes of the two
young ones.

Round black eyes set in small glistening black faces.

Small curly hair on the small head and the tiny hands gripping with
all their little might the barbed wires of the kitchen garden fence.
A fear of something the young minds felt but could not comprehend,
writ large on their faces.
And slowly Van Dyke's anger and hatred seemed to evaporate.

How

could these innocent ones be punished for a crime they did not commit?
who was he to extinguish the living light from their eyes?
dropped down and self revulsion gripped him.

His eyes

Had he come down to

that lowly state of being a savage to snuff out young lives?
He looked up again at the two faces.still staring at him were
the two pairs of eyes.

His David's eyes, his Sylvia's eyes II

put the gun back in its holster and walked over to the fence.

He
The

children cowered away from him.
He sat down on the grass,this side of the fence,on his haunches
and smiled at them.
their

After a few seconds the children broke away from

petrified state

unsure steps.

and walked towards him with slow and

The fear not fully erased but some trust having crept into

their expressions.

The two came up to the kitchen garden fence and

the small black hands curled once more over the wire.
He held out a hand to them.

They looked at his hand outstretched

and then at his smiling face and the two innocent faces broke out into
smiles.

Those smiles seemed to radiate and fill the world around

Van Dyke with light and warmth.
He lifted them over the fence and one on each side of him the
young ones walked, their.sma11 hands barely encircling‘his maesive
wrists.
In that moment of

time Van

Dyke

knew what

it was

to really

Not just one's relatives and near and dear ones but the entire

_15_

love.

