A WALK IN THE WOODS
'lIT has a large campus filled with sprawling woods', says the
Guide to Campus Living (or something like that)
the forest does seem to be peaceful and idyllic.

and at first sight
But after a few

weeks stay at IIT-M, one realises that all is not well with the woods.
The problems it is beset with are many~cutting of trees for firewood
(which seems to have increased

sharply this sem.), uncontrolled

construction of buildings. pollution (atmospheric and sound), littering,
use of the forest for various shortcuts and as an open air toilet,
stray dogs and cattle, use of the lake for washing clothes and fishing
even poaching of deer - the list is endless.

It is only a matter of

time before the GTCL will read 'IIT is filled with desert and concrete
jungle'.

Maybe in 5 years, maybe in 10,

It is entirely up to us, the

campus residents to decide on what sort of a legacy we are going to
leave to future IITians.
However,

the whys

and wherefores

of the denudation

and degradation

of our campus will not be taken up here - there being a separate campus
publication to go into such issues.

of course, it remains to be seen

whether the new editorial board of the aforementioned magazine will
tackle such major problems which can cause irreversible damage to our
environment, or will content themselves (and the GSB) by raking up
non-issues like 'PG problems' and continuing to flog dead horses like
the

attendance

issue,

which has been the

case in the past.

Let us

instead, look at and appreciate what our campus has to offer us in the
form of wildlife, before it is too late.
Mammals, reptiles, amphibians and fish are rather poorly represented
here.

Commonly seen mammals are axis deer, black buck, bonnet macaque,

common mongooses,oats, palm squirrel and black naped hare.
been sighted on occasion.

Jackals have

The only reptiles present are lizards,

monitors, turtles and a 5~foot crocodile, living in one of the oxidation
ponds, out of harm's way.

Interesting fish, including catfish with

barbs and some garishly coloured fish with large poisonous spines on
their backs,

can be

seen when people

fish with

nets

at

the

lake.

The most interesting creatures are the birds (of the feathered
kind).

Over 70 different species have been spotted and identified here.

Some of the common birds that you would have seen but may not have been
able to identify, are described below.
The Stone Curlew is a brown-streaked ground bird with long yellow legs
and distinctive white 'goggles'around its eyes.
familiar to those who jog in the stadium.

This bird should be

Many can be heard making

