might while Sukhi threw with all his mane. Thomas
secured a silver, Guha from Kgp obtaining the gold.
Later in the morning Chou notched up his first vic-
tory by winning the broad jump with a leap of 6.05m.
R. Bahl was second and S. Merchant (Delhi) came
third.

In the afternoon Chinnathambi won the pole —

vault, far out-stripping his nearest rivals. The cap-
tivated crowd was as disappointed as he was when he
failed to clear the bar on his way to the record. In
the shot put Papani of Bombay heaved the put
beyond the reach of mere mortals. Indesa and
Pramod got the second and third places.

The hockey and football matches were played
simultaneously. The footer team sorely felt the
absence of Dana from the back, Jaidev from the
centre and Fiji from the forward line. The game
vs. Delhi was desultory, and we finally won 5-3
through the tie-breaker. Vijayan brought off some
magnificent saves during the game the and tie-
breaker. The hockey match was equally uninspiring

until the closing minutes of the extratime. Jaya

went down with a muscle pull and was carried off
protesting. Prabhakar was the substitute, and within
minutes he executed a beautiful: dribble down the
centre, teat the goalse’s rush and tapped home the
winner,

In the evening our badminton team ran over a
weak team from Kanpur taking all the matches in
straight sets. The table tennis was equally one-sided,
and despite all the cheering from their home crowd
Kgp lost 5-0. Modi’s matches had the greatest spec-
tator appeal since they were least one-sided.

Kanpur suffered at our hands yet again in the
basketball. Our team had some difficulty getting
going, but won convincigly 50-33, in a match marred
by incompetent refereeing.

4

2ad Days 19th Dee.

The day began fairly well with no inkling of the
reverses that were to come. Chou and Thiru quali-
fied for the 200m finals. Inthe discus throw there
was a contest between Papani’s strength and Indesa’s
technique. Indesa ultimately triumphed with a dis-
tance of 32.4m. Papani (Bmb) reached 31.94 m.
Louis came fourth. Our first setback occured when
Bombay overpowered us in volleyball 15-6, 15-7.
The Bombay team assumed command from the outset
and never gave us a chance to get going.

Prakash and Chou claimed the gold and silver
medals in the Triple Jump before fate struck again.
While running the 400m hurdles heats, Chou hit a
hurdle that had unaccountably been set to the ‘high
hurdles’ level. Though he qualified for the final
with Prakash and Lalji, the injury knocked him out
of the running for the individual championship.

The morning was marred by the news thata
fight had broken out during the fcotball match bet-
ween Kanpur and Kgp. The crowd invaded the
ground and beat up the Kanpur captain. The match
had to be abandoned. Kanpur later refused the re-
play and abstained from further participation in
football--a pity, since they were easily the best footer
team at the meet.

The weighclifting was spread over the first two
days. As expected, we won the overall championship
with places in all the weights.

below 50 kg — Nadkarni 3rd
50 - 55 kg — Mahadevan Ist
55 - 60 kg — Ashok Nair 2nd
60 - 65 kg — Kamath Ist

over 65 kg — Rusi Ist
Jewoor 3rd

The hockey match vs Kgp was played before a
somewhat subdued crowd, perhaps their pyrotechnics
in the morning had left them a little ashamed of
themselves. Raids on both sides produced no results.
The Kgp wing tested our defence repeatedly but
found it sound. Our forwards had a number of good
chances but failed to capitalise on them. The tie
breaker had to be resorted to finally, and this turned
out to be aregular cliff-hanger, going to 19 pushes
before the issue was finally decided. The first ten
pushes left the score at 3-3. Raghu, D’Su (Old
Father Time) and Jaya netted the ball, Jaya putting
in the vital equalizer on the last push. Sumesh our
keeper had his job made more difficult by the hesita-
tion before pushing of the Kgp team. The hockey
refereeing was miserable throughout but it was most
blatantly obvious here, with the refreees displaying
abysmal ignorance of the rules and arguing with each
other over technical points. The second set of pushes
was more one-sided; Kgp scored thrice while we
managed only a single goal via Sathe. The final
score after 19 pushes: 6-4.

We suffered a further setback that evening, again
at the hands of Kgp, this time in badminton. Kumar
played the first match against Lim, the Kgp champ.
After losing the first game 8-15, and trailing 0-8 in
the second, Kumar rallied magnificiently to take the
game at 15-11. With everything his way and Lim
on the run, Kumar unaccountably slipped off his
game and allowed Lim to take the decider 15-8. The
second match sealed our fate; ‘‘Youngster’” Ravi
lost to Probir. The strain of playing his first inter-
IIT match against a player on home-ground clearly
told on him, and he kept gifting points to his oppo-
nent through service errors. Lim and Probir comp-
leted the rout defeating Madan and Kumar 18-13,

15-4.
