ird Day: 26th Dec.

Kgp continued on its winning spree the next
morning when we met them in the football finals.
They were undoubtedly the better team but only
managed to score when Kasim went down with an
injury. The attention of our backs was diverted for
a few critical seconds and since the ball was still in
play the Kgp wing seized a golden Opportunity and
scored the lone goal after a series of quick passes.
Our team fought hard to equalize during the second
half, but their efforts were not crowned with success,

Meanwhile a keen tussle took place on the athe-
letics field during the hammer throw. The contest
was between Papani and Madras. Indesa, Louis and
Pramod steadily improved their distances; A titanic
heave by Louis landed just inches out of the sector
ata distance of over 30m. Papani ultimately won
with a distance of 31.2m. Louis was second with
a throw of 29.56m, while Pramod and Indesa were
third and fourth with throws of 28.27 and 27.36m.
None oi the other participants was able to clear 20m.

Things began to look up again for us. In the
400m hurdles we took the honours with Lal ji,
Prakash and Chou in first, second and fourth place.
Chou ran despite his injured leg, and had to drag
the same ‘high hurdle’ off the track before the offici-
als would believe that something was amiss with it.

The tennis finals were next on the schedule and
we strolled over sure that we would add ten points
to our tally. A. Fazalbhoy put up a good fight to
Ravikanth before going down 4-6, 6-2, 3-6: the only
player to take a single set from any member of our
team. The exuberant Kasturi made short work of
his opponent Punchboy and demolished him 6-0, 6-3.
Prakash and Raju moved in for the kill and drove
home our superiority with a 6-2, 6-3 victory in the
doubles. The contest provided the best joke of the
meet; observing the rout of his team a disgruntled
Bombay supporter was injudicious enough to shout
‘‘We’ll see you in TT in the evening’, an announce-
ment which the Madras crowd greeted with howls
of glee.

Bombay was also in the process of losing their
losing semi-finals in hockey against Madras.
After a slow start things began to hum during
the second half. A fine dribble by Prabhakar
was blocked near the goal—mouth, and in the ensuing
scrimmage the goalie stepped on the ball; Raghu
made no mistake about the ensuing penalty push. A
little later Pinky raced down the right flank, cut in
and beat the defender, and banged the ball through
the gap between pad and post to seal the result at 2-0.

The losing semi-final in volleyball was the nadir
of fair play in the meet. We were leading 10-2 in
the first game when suddenly everything we touched
was called ‘foul ball’. In fact, once Rampalli
Jumped to spike and the whistle blew and foul called
before he had even touched the ball. Kgp described
the recovery as miraculous, but we prefer a less
supernatural explanation. The team lost all will to
fight thereafter and the final score was 20-18, 15-2 in
favour of Kgp.

The afternoon opened with the 400m finals and
we had to be content with a bronze earned by Thiru.
The high jump was the next item on the agenda and
Chinnathambi sailed over all the heights at his first
attempt. The others made heavier weather of it.
With the bar at 1.70m everyone failed, giving Chinna-
thambi the gold on the basis of the performance at
the previous height. The 800m race yielded the
second and fourth place in the persons of Lalji and
Rajan Dias, Delhi claiming the other two places. In
the volleyball finals Kanpur beat Bombay ina 5 game
thriller ; 15-11, 8-15, 16-14, 13-15, 15-11.

The table tennis finals after tea saw Bombay
going down fighting to a superior team from Madras.
Ravi beat Vaidya easily 21-17, 21-11. Marballe
then turned the tables on us by beating Kamath at
identical scores. Murali launched into the attack
and blitzed Ananth 21-10, 2i-12. Notto be outdone
Ravi beat Marballe 21-14, 21-12 and Murali struck
again beating Vaidya 21-16, 21-11. The match bet-
ween Kamath and Ananth wasa real cliff-hanger,
and Kamath demonstrated his potential, going down
finally 21-19, 21-23, 17-21. Murali wrapped things

up by beating Marballe 21-12, 21-16. Captain
Modi elected not to play the finals so as to give
Kamath some match-practice—a measure of our
confidence.

In the losing semi-finals in basketball, Kgp inched
past Kanpur 46-45. The finals apainst Delhi was
next and both teams agreed that the game would be
better if the referees were changed. The coaches
of the Kgp and Bombay teams consented to officiate
and the improvement was apparent to even an
untutored eye. The first half saw the team
fumbling badly, executing good dribbles but failing
to basket. The half-time score was a discouraging
17-17. In the second half the team played a more
inspired game, and the score shot away in our
favour. Gadgil played magnificently, and Rajshekar
began to basket like the champ he is. The scene was
reminescent of the days of yore, the impression
heightened by the sight of Krishnan on the sidelines,
giving advice and encouragement. Other familar
faces present were Jakes, Santanagopalan and the
legendary Narendra Kumar.

A quiet crowd watched Madras rout Bombay
yet again in the losers’ semi-final in badminton.
Kumar won his match 15-8, 15-1, while Ravi beat
his opponent 17.15, 15-7. Madan end Kumar then
sewed up the contest, winning the doubles 15-7, 15-1.
The hall rocked with ironic applause as the per-
spiring Bombay team took their solitary point
at 0-14.

The gymnastics were spread over the second and
third day. Handicapped by the lack of a respectable
gym at home, our team did itself credit. We would
have come second but...yes the same excuse. In
fact three of the four visiting teams saw fit to protest
the judging. The final results—

Bombay — Ist The best team
Kgp — 2nd No comment
Madras — 3rd Well done and bad luck.

The individual championship went to
G. Sohani of Bombay.
