4th Day: 21st Dec.

The big question was who would be second
in athletics—Bombay and Kgp were neck to neck,
with Delhi not far behind. Madras was some 30
points ahead of the field and disdained all feverish
calculations. A glance at the scoreboard was
reassuring even to those who could not do mental
arithmetic. |

The first event was the 100m finals and S. Kumar
of Kanpur won easily to complete a sprint triple
(100, 200, 400m) and collect the individual cham-
pionship in the bargain. An hour later came the
4x400m relay, and Madras upset favourites Kgp.
Braving the pain in his leg Chou ran the first lap
and did well to come in second about 10m _ behind
the leader. Prakash was off like a startled hare,
and pulled away from the field finishing about 30m
ahead of his rival from Kgp. Lalji sprinted well and
maintained the lead, though he showed signs of
fatigue at the end. Thiru ran strongly from the
start and we won by a convincing 30m. Kgp was
second and Bombay third.

The hockey .finals produced little by way of
entertainment. Delhi appeared to have the edge,
but could not carve a way into the Kgp goal. The
ubiquitous tie-breaker had to be resorted to and Kgp
ultimately won 4-2; a gold without scoring a single
goal in a match...Oh for the return of Chikki.

After a rather studiedly friendly exhibition
cricket match the afternoon events got under way
with the 110m hurdles final. Chou managed to
secure a third place, Bombay took the gold and Kgp
the silver. Then came the 1500m final, and Thiru
Ramalingam, the hot favourite led from the start
to clock 4m 17.2sec, another new record, and making
him the only man to rewrite the record-books.

There remained the 4x 100m relay and without
Chou our team didn’t stand much of a chance—at
their best the chance was slim enough. They tried
anyway and came in— last. It didn’t really matter, for
as the shouting died away and the ritual of the prize
distribution unfolded to polite applause and riotous
mirth, Madras celebrated once again the return of
the General Championship to its jealous grasp.

4

Inthe dying moments of the meet, with the
strain of competition behind them the various conti-
ngents mingled and for one brief moment the intan-
gible inter-JIT spirit made its evanescent appearance.

 

Pyrrhic Victories ....

— RAMKUMAR

The euphoria of victory is fading away, the
inter-iitans have had their victory dinner, and we
have had our holiday. The IIT(M) contingent has
covered itself in glory by winning for the fifth suc-
cessive year. The only question that remains to be
asked is : Glory in whose eyes ? The other students ?
The majority of them would hardly have recorded
the fact, let alone rejoiced init. The Fstablishment ?
They would not bother to applaud as loudly as they
do if they did not labour under the misconception
that the students were listening. The other IITs?
After the last five meets, the prevailing mood should
be at least twice as cynical as the tone of this article.
We come to the inevitable conclusion that it must be
the athletes themselves. In which case J fail to see
why all of us should pick up the tab for a bunch of
mediocre sportsmen (Yes there have been excep-
tions).

For here’s the rub: the cost/benefit ratio of
this grandiose annual exercise shows that it is simply
not justifiable. A conservative estimate puts the
expenditure on the meet at a cool Rs. 50,000. The
beneficiaries of this staggering amount are a few
people (approximately a hundred) with a modest
claim to sporting talent. During the fifteen days af
the coaching camp, an average of Rs.10 is spent on
feeding each member. Add to this the lavish outlay
on equipment (one estimate puts the expenditure in
this area as at least 150% of what is necessary) and

you get an idea of where the money goes. In stark
contrast, Mardi Gras, which is a welcome diversion
for at least half the students on campus, costs us
only Rs. 15,000. We concede that sports are intrin-
sically more expensive, but the disparity is ridi-
culous.

If it is competition in sport that we want, then
surely the Inter-Collegiate tournaments here are of
an equivalent if not superior standard. If the idea
is to promote fraternity between the IITs, experience
has shown that, instead, the meets only generate a
lot of ill-will. Inthe present situation we cannot
afford to squander scarce resources on white ele-
phants such as these on the dubious pretext of main-
taining a noble tradition. Too long have the major
portion of the time, energies and the finances of the
Gymkhana been directed towards proving that we
are marginally better than a few others on the sports
field. More tennis courts, the long-forgotten
Student’s Activities Centre, the number of meaning-
ful projects that cry out for urgent attention are too
many to be mentioned here. One Swimming Pool
in the hand is worth five Meet victories in the bush
(which is where they could have been held for all
that most of us here get to see of them). It is impe-
rative that we re-examine our priorities now, and
decide on a more balanced course of action. If our
sportsmen insist that the show must go on then they
should be prepared to accept a considerably reduced

budget.

 

For the cover we are indebted to that very

talented young man — Joe Cherian

 

Edited by Philip Varghese, Published by Prof.
N.V.C. Swamy and Printed at the St. Louis Institute
Press for the Indian Institute of Technology — Madras.
