Yn ane Ze Ss
sHewos

_— R A, Jeeves

Like most interesting things, it started off with a
whimper. Ompa cornered me one day and said,
‘’ Hey, wanna go to Delhi?” I mused on the possibi-
lity that Ompa had finally made it round the bend,
and guardedly made a noncommital reply. He gave
me the details — Winter Festivals at Miranda, Hindu
College and St. Stephen’s. Of course this was
putting it in a different light, and I agreed with
alacrity. |

Thus in a couple of days’ time Joe and I were
ensconced none too haprily in a GT compartment.
When we landed up at New Delhi, we spied a couple
of harassed-looking females walking up and down the
platform peering into the compartments. Evidently
the Miranda House reception committee. So like
man, we saunter up like casually and announce that
we are the IITM contingent.

And immediately came the first faux pas of the
tour: Rajiv, with elaborate casualness, introduces
Joe: This is Rajiv and I’m Joe’. It helped break
the ice, though. And we reached Miranda House
just in time to be disqualifed for the Quiz.

We were shunted into Hindu College Hostel,
(belying certain fond hopes) and it proved a hercu-
lean task getting into Miranda thereafter. Grub,
though, was good. (IIT hostels note: they have
subsidised grub, mess bills Rs. 120/-)

Shanker and Modi arrived next day; Debjani
was already there. We had some moderate success
in Miranda~—Joe’s collage got a prize. Shanker
bagged one for the debate. The scene stealers were.
however, MCC, with their superb singers.

In another day the Miranda Fest was over. One
sorta regretted being ejected from there especially
after a fine farewell dinner and a hot jam session.
Nice dames, though maybe a trifle overdressed for
my simple Southie tastes.

Meanwhile the second blunder of the day—a
nondescript female came up to Rajiv and asked him

where he was from, what his name was, etc., and an
unexpected bombshell: ‘‘What’s your caste?” Rajiv
was zapped for a moment, then drew himself up to
full height and answered solemnly, “I don’t believe
in religion and caste”. He thought it was a pretty
good reply till Debjani pointed out that the question
kad been, ‘“What’s your class?”

The Hindu College binge was so—-so;. Chap
called Sanjay Srivastava was impressive. Not so
Just-A-Minute: Mahesh would have torn it to
pieces. The TITB crowd did well and IIM Cal were
fantastic at Quiz. Manglik, Debbie and Bringi put
off a good play.

Then came the climax; the much—publicised
St. Stephen’s and it Winterfest. IITM, dark horses,
pulled off a major surprise in the Skit-cum mime —
Bhaskar and Joe at their scintillating best in ‘Butcher
of Barcelona’. The audience reaction was just what
it should have been, They laughed in the right
places, maintained an audible silence otherwise and
gave the youngsters a well-deserved standing ovation.
The judges were overwhelmed and confessed their
insompetence to judge such works of art ‘comprising
all the elements of drama’. Good show there, Joe
and Bhaskar! (Joe was christened ‘Butcher’, especial-
ly by enthusiastic females).

Later Joe collected a prize for painting, Modi
got a very honourable mention (against very stiff
competition’ in the debate, and Rajiv and Manglik
made a brave attempt in the Quiz. All told, we
tied with IIT KGP for the Best Participating College
Prize. But KGP cashed it because of more ‘honour-
able mentions’. Generally, Kudos to the IITM
team, especially Joe and Bhaskar. The Stephens’
Soap-Box, Debate and Elocution were good items.

The last day’s highlight was a combined Madras
show from MCC and IITM. The curtain fell, and
to the strains of ‘Stephens and its Winterfest ..’. (re-
member “JIT and Mardi Gras...?’) the long trek
back home began.
