liT Madras, October 1967

Vol. VI, No.2

Direc(or ·not DispleOSed wilR

2nd Indo-German Agreement

Detisions· talten at Delhi

Gets under way

New German Professors Arrive
The :first phase of the 2nd Indo-German agreement came into effect
eady tN:~:academic year with. the exchange of $cientists between IIT
Madras 'and four Technische Hochschulen in the Federal Republic.

Captut£mes' reporters had the pleasure of meeting three of the distinguished newcomers and having an informal chat with them.
'IT IS more interesting to see India than
to read. about it.

The picture that books
give about India is so difierent', remarked
Dr. Ing. Narjes; who takes over from
Prof. Lutz as the head of the Steam Labo~ratorY' " Narjes hails from ·the city of West

He hopes to get his stay of t\vo years here
extended to four. • But', he adds, I after
all I am a Beamt6r in Germany and must go
back when I finish my job h~re I'

Berltn.;-'/.H~.:,took , hit', Diplom -Illgenieur in
Mech~icar:'"}~~gipeedng: ' 'at':4~e~~techni~r
uiUv~i~~ty ~ ~liere; "'" He specialised both 'i~
comb.ul!t~on ',:' e~gines and in steam~ power
plants: . His s~dy at , Berlin was in~rrupted

by the war, when lie served'- ?-II;\ soldier in the
Ge11llan Navy, . After four years in a steam
J

-Campf1Stimes News.

BQck

Three..Yea:r Course .To Go

back at?· the University working Jor . ~is
Doctorate.

Dr. Narjes haS worked in Finland and
Yugoslavia. He feels that he ~as been in
India for too short a time to form an opinion
about this place. Dr. Narjes, as part of his
programme, proposes to guide a few students
working for their Doctorates. He hopes he
will find time to lecture to undergraduates too.
Dr. Narjes' special interests are music and
painting. 'He doesn't mind putting around
with his golf sticks either. The Professor,
his wife and their cute poodle arrived in lIT
early last month.
Dr. HERBERT BOCK had news for
Campastimes. He was one of those responsible for. planning the Chemical engineering
curriculum at our Ins~itute. He joined IlT
this month as P.r.pf~!lSQjjof Process Equipment
Design.
Dr. Bock took his Diplom Ingenieur in
Physics at Dresden. After taking his Doctorate, he worked with Linde and then with
Bayer, the world famous firm of drugs.
Dr. Bock is the author of ThermiscJze
Verjahremtechnik (in three parts). whic!L;.is:
widely used in technical univel1!itieS' fin
Germany. He proposes to set up a laboratory for Automatic Control here.
Herbert loves Ballroom dancing. He is
happy to be in our • beautiful Campus '. He
wonders how the • game' here is 80 tame.

Campastimes reporters were 'surprised to
meet a different Sengupto back from Delhi.
This neW individual spoke in a compromising
tone and was reluctant to air his own opinions.
The first question, naturally, was regarding the
change in the mode of admission to the IlTs.
The Director now feels that the IIT Entrance
examination is not a fool-proof method of
selection. He fears that a few gems wight
slip through the sieve unnoticed. C That is
why '. he ~aid, the lIT council has decided to
admit 10 per cent of the boys into the
undergraduate course on the basis of their
qualifying examinations.
According to the Director. though research
is important, too much emphasis should not
be laid uPQn it. Statistically speaking, while
about Rs. 2,000 is spent per undergraduate
per year. about Rs. 8,000 is spent per research
.,cholar per year. The Director feels that
the undergraduate course deserves as much
attention as the research programmes.

Prof·

plant" ~m\'fut£acturmg '~firm, ·he ~·found him.~.eU

Prof·
Narjes

25 P.

'INDIAN ENGINEERS ARE sharp and
catch on fast'. Dr. Ing. Bechtloff told our
special correspondents Roy and Sudarsan.
Bechtloff hails from the city of Wilhelm
Haven. He did most of his study in the Brunswick Hochschule where he specialised in
Machine Tools and fabrication. In 1961 he
joined Krupp Artelt. The Professor's remark
on Indian Engineers was not just to flatter us.
He spoke from his experience with our engineers at Krupps. While at Krupp he was
imrolved with the design of a crane in the
Madras harbour. He was also responsible
for the design of a steel plant in India.

The Director connrmed that .adniissjon
into the three year degree course in Teclini~
cal Institutions will . be stopped with this
academic year. t This course was just an
experiment to see whether a science~baseC1
engineering course would prove helpful. But
it has not' been a success', the Director
explained.

-Campastinuf News.

HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING
.EXPERT AT INSTITUTE
The Month of Septembel' saw the visit of
Prof. Dr. 'lng. Bassler (of the Technical
University, Darmstadt in West Germany) to
the Institute. According to reports the
hydraulic engineering expert is one who
can boast of a flood of experiences behind
him which he diverts into proper channels.
During his stay at the Institute, Dr. Ing.
Bassler delivered a series of lectures on
'Hydro-Power Engineering.'

Prof·
Bechtloff

Dr. Bechtloff proposes to set up a machine
elements and machanical handling laboratory.
In this, he is being assisted by Mr. SzeIagowski who has accompanied him from
Krupp.
Dr. Bechtloff said that'he was sl.trprised to
see India so highly industrialised. He hopes
to see more of India armed with his movie
camera.
Campasti1n6.~ wishtls the newcomers all the
best I
CatnpastinMS News.

Director and Prof, Bassler

