4

CAMPASTIMES

THE STILL MILL

EDITORIAL
The Directors' meeting-first at Madras
and then at Delhi was arranged ~o discuss a
matter calling fat' immediate attention. The
futu.re of English in the country has been
threatened by regional language fanatics and
chavinists. These narrow-minded individuals
do not realise that • The all India link must
not be destroyed on the altar of the regional
tongues which tempt us to isolation and
disintegtation ' as one writer put it.
~nglish is the basis of higher education in
this country. The introduction of another
language would involve discarding a hundred,
Ye3rs' work and beginning afresh with the
new language. The politicians pipe-dream of
a multiplicity of languages wi~l .multiply the
problem many fold.
'
It is a relief that the ~ Big Five' are
questioning the advisability of a language
cbange in the lIT's-as, for technological
institutions, this problem should not arise.
English is the engineers window to the world.
Shutting this window or making him look the
other way will find him peering through pitch
darkness.

""

.

.

..

The trouble with most geniuses in the
campus (I mean the students) is that they lack
patience. So many of them come up with
brainwaves. fresh and scintillating-but
brainwaV'cs they remain. Few take the trouble
to pursue their ideas towards useful or paying
ends. What they need is a motive power to
propel them into action. This positive
catalytic action could be effected by the

Why beat around the bush, we will get to
the point right away. This is the story of
two young men, who are aspiring to be
engineers. As with all other final ye~r boys,
they are also stuck with a project. From now
on, we wi111et them do the talking direc,tly.
'I am told we have to do a project this
year, yar. Thrilling what? WE design,
WE make the decisions. Now that is what I
call education,' said ehaman.
'It will be fun.' admitted Vanky.
And soon enough, the projects were
announced Chaman and Vanky were grouped
together to design ~ Still Mill. Half million
ton capacity, to be located at Timbuktoo.
'Oh, no , Not
groaned Chaman.
'H~d it,' thought Vanky with a feeling of
despatr.
Having started with such a deep sense of
understanding for each other. one could
see they would reach a. new height. Explore
new horizons. They would not do the
normal, routine thing-thinking, reading pertinant literature. consulting their guide etc.
No, they would be different. And believe
me, they were•. They started by talking.
They had obviously read How to Win Friends
etc.
• I say, alljokes aside, we will make a fine
job of it.' said Yank with a smile which had
nothing behind it but teeth. (1 still don't
see what chances I have with him around.)
•Ja, }a we will lick'em,' said Chaman
diplomatically. (We will never get started.
Not a chance.)
• And I got relatives downthere in Timbuktoo. They can help-like surveying the sight,'
offered Vanky.
'There 1 We already got a lead. We will
get it bound in real style, black leather cover,
gold letters-the complete works,' agreed
Chaman.
Vanky remembered something. 'Talking
of binding reminds me. We must first get it
typed, rna. And. typing is very expensive.
F"nty paise per page. That is a lot of
money.'
'::
type. I used to make
• Don't worry. 1
paper name pmtes for my books on.my pop's
typewriter. I can borrow a typewriter,'
explained ehaman.
,Vanky was delighted. • I knew we two
would click. They say marriages are made
in Heaven. I say all partnerships are made
In Heaven. You \viU do the typing then.'
Chaman could exploit the situation as well
as the next guy. • Fair. enough. You do the
work and I wiII do the typing. We will go
halvers on the cost of the paper.'
Vanky still did not see light. • You got
yourself a deal,' he said. satisfied.
To reach this stage, our friends had taken
about three weeks. Meanwhile, the other
fellows were doing the usual things. Tltey
were working, reading, calculating, and
drawing.
'
But Vanky knew when and where to drawthe
line. 'I have always believed in one thing.
If the work can be postponed, drop it. Notice
I say • if' and 'can'. Well, it can no longer
be postponed. We must get started. Now,
what is it they want at Timbuktoo l'
One could see that Chaman was embarassed. 'I am afraid .•.• .• Nothing to be scared of, yar. The
procedure is standardised. We will manage,'
assured Vanky.
• Let me finish, you mut. I am not afraid
of that. I think I have lost the problem !'
Vanky was positively taken aback. His
eyes popped out because of the shock. He
thundered just as soon as Charoan had put
them back in the sockets. I You moron 1 How
could you? We had it! Doomed. Do you
hear'1 Doomed. That project is worth 100
:marks I'
'Aw, c'mon. Dont sound so desperate.
We know it is a steel mill. All these mills
have a blast furnace. We can safely design
one.'
Chaman did not but Vanlty saw the snag in
this othemise brilliant suggestion mainly which
blast furnace to have. Vanky told him.

He could endea~our to nno out where
his student's intereats (academic only) lie and
could help him do something creatiV'e. The
cream should not be allowed to remain as
such. It must be continuously churned if it
should remain at the top-otherwise there is
always the danger of its mixing with the scum.
We are sorry that this issue comes to youthe Student Reader-at a time when you are
not expecting visitors-with you, your mind
and your room in a turmoil. Yes, when you
are experiencing one of the more distasteful
orgies of an IITian's life. the Terminals.
This issue is unique in several respects. It
has broken the usual traditions with which a
Campastimcs issue is bound, does not contain
many not~read-by-anyone columns and is
designed primarily for those Re3ders sweating
and fuming their way through the heat of the
Terminals'
So snatch a few minutes off from equations.
problems and graphs and relax with this issue

of Campastimes I

Letters to .the Editol
Dear Mr. Edito~,

Him:

can

te~het.

[ October, 1967

Your~,.

etc.

GNANCHANDRA

*

*

*

A Feuet Plays Hockey ('I)
GILL or JACK ?????
Dear Mr. Editor.
If 26 aCross in Campastimes Crosswords
No. 2 is 'JACK' as THE EXPERT on
Crosswords says ,in his 'Explanations for
Beginners '-like nie-I'll eat my hat II
18 down gives I G' and l4 down gives • L '.
and since ferret means 'to clear out (holes).L.it can only refer to someone who clears out
and p!~ys hockey. That can only be • GILL'.
Perhaps my colleague was thinking of b~idge
while framing the answers??
.
Anyway, I hope future Crosswords have no
mistakes and that-' Explanations for. Beginners'
continue. so that we Beginners get an idea of
how to solve these intellectual exrcisesl
Labelled,
.~.
An Indian King With Surname • Hindi of
red> .(5)-(3).
TlJE REPLY

The wr,iter of the article begs forg~vance
for the mistake. One suggestion: Can the
better writer not be better described thus:
'Senior student's residue~all right? AU
wrong (5. 3)'
'Fear not. I will think of something,'
assured Chaman.
And he did, two days later. C While I look
for the problem, we can decide abQut th~
general features of the mill, Cant<een, cyclestand, common-1'oom etc.
Vanky was impressed. '1 say you got
helluva point there •. Why didn't I think of
that. Let us work this everung.'
• Not today, yar. I am goiniFfor a movieKiss Kiss, Kill Kill. Full of action. We will
start tomorrow.'
.But then Vanky was a busy man also. •
am going for Tiger Agent Prefers Dynamite.
That'S where the action is \'
That was ten days back. Since then, they
have decided on a number of things. They
have agreed on the number of watchmen and
even the bus timings. 'But the path to a steel
mill is not all-smooth. For example, they
do not see eye to eye on the important matter
of ice-creams. Chaman feels Choc Bars
must be available in the canteen. But not
Vanky. The quality is so poor, he feels they
are Shock Bars. Elsewhere in this Campastimes, they have ask.ed for public opinion.
They assure us the matter will receive their
most serious consideration.
As for tbe Steel Mill, that will come just
as sOOn as the problem is found. But by
Jove, they tell us, Timbuktoo will have its
Steel Mill-only on paper !

r

-AJAN.

