October, 19671

CAM PAS TIM E S

----------------------------------------------------.---------funny; most, sickeningly sick; some to set a
.chap here fuming, a chap there blushing;
others like < Murderer Ja Raha Hai' inspired
spontaneously by .the spirit of the occasion;
but all motivated by a sincere desire to irritate
otlle,rs. Then. there are those who have got
rOlJrid the irrationalities of the language and
must think aloud .in their native tongues if
they are' to follow the intricate plots.
If by some superb synthesis, the sophisticated and not so sophisticated are pleased,
there are the sensibilities of the newly jointed
youngsters from schools who are still in their
COCOons. Many parents have, I believe,
objected to their innocent kinds being exposed
to unchaste adult movies. Parents have their
duties but even some students have complained
of eroticism on the screen.
Perhaps there is truth in what a r!lgging
loyalist said the other day in the Jamuna
Hostel debate: • The trouble with you
freshers is that you have not been introduced
to the facts of the world by your experienced
seniors ..•• ' Of course, how and to what
they are to be introduced is a debatable
matter.
VIJA.Y REDDY.

A prominent secretary swore later that he
was the third person in the open air theater:
the first two were the patron and the chief
guest. The few who were dragged in subs~ .
equently must have guessed by now-l am
referring to the 1967-68 inauguration of the
. Gymkhana of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras-36, the only one of its kind in
Madras etc., etc. Frantic, the embarrassed
secretaries fanned out on foot and wheel in
search of flesh to fill the chairs. I am sure
they assured everyone that if the bowl wasn't
bursting at its seams, it was because of the
basketball match. The truth is, that, but for
the smaH and understanding crowd that had
turned up to' watch the game of basketball,
the inauguration would have been what the
new president in his address labelled the
Specimenia IITIANA
Gymkhana~unique.
If you had passed
Genus
STUDENTIA
within a mile of OAT that evening, you
would have been intercepted by a sick looking
I
think
it
was
Darwin
who gassed a lot
gym member, told what a gem you were and
about evolution. They tried to get my grey
gently but firmly escorted to a chair. Having
cells to take in some of that stuff in school.
rounded up a quorum, the sprightly General
But the whole thing beats me. A guy had his
Secretary went about introducing his Cabinet
ugly mug, two hands, a couple of legs and
with brief life-sketches. He made no new
all that jazz, but what the hell that had to do
friends among the people whose lives he
with his natural surroundings and environsketched that evening.
ment, I couldn't fathom. The idea that my
- The bo,vl, deserted at six p.m., was, two
oversized nose or double chin could fade
hours later, throbbing with the piquant vitaaway, just wouldn't sink in. I felt that it
lity of two thousand neurotic souls waitmg
couldn't be done-not in a million years!
Jmpatiently for their new 3S mm. wonder to
And then I carite to IIT. A yelii 'went by.
start enterta!ning .them. That our 16 mm.
One fine day, I was walking do{ih the road,
movies have taken· something like three years
and bingo I The whole thing cleared up.
to grow to the present dimensi8hs'is clearly
The genius of Charles hit me like;~ thundernot in keeping with our motto-' What can't
bolt. I took my hat off to that brainy guy,
rise "overnight, doesn't rise in IIT.' At the
then and there I Not in my wildest dream
rate at which our neighbours from Ve1acheri
had 1 supposed that I'd even grasp Darwin's
and other settlements are choosing to visit us
gab; but. rely on the good aI' lIT to do it !
on Saturday evenings, we will soon need a
What 1 saw was a typical specimen of
Circarama to accommodate them. Now 1:hat
Student kind that inhabits this joint. A year
the screen has doubled itself, the film club
at the Institute had told on him: poor fellow!
blokes seem to think it logical to show movies
His ears stuck out conspicuously, undoubtedly
that are only half as long. I did not see the
due to the training imparted to it to catch
film but I heard a chap complaining that
whispers emanating from the direction of the
the movie on the 23rd September, • Lovers
blackboard. His eyes were fiery red, almost
must Learn' started with a song he had heard
popping out; the disease of late-night muggafteF the interval, the summer before last.
ing had taken its toll.
"Our' several generations of projection room
operators.;,.h9ve never taken pains to show the
His lips quivered, and as I went by, a few
t~els in th-e~!"~erthe~itectorintended them to
stray, unintelligible words escaped them. It
be,< ~or hay,~.;~~dlenct;S ~e~l1y cared; but
was seconds before 1 realized that they were
at thiS rate ~~jl~w multtmdhon dollar film
bits of some weird equation. No doubt he
about ColumbP.s;:",hen shown in lIT., will
had de-veloped the habit of muttering queer
begin in Manhattan:~nd, end up in the middle
things as headed towards his periodical hall.
of Atlantic .via lWadrid, with Rome and
His arms bore an unwieldly l,ook. ScribIstanbul thrown "i:N"for kicks.
bling across pages and pages had, 1 suppose,
The. film club· coaps must be finding it
developed it to abnormal proportions. His
impossible to show films, that are approved by
whole body sagged. I suspected the absence
. alt Our audiences contain from the most
of a vertebral column, but, I guess, it had just
fastidious highbrows to the
aesthetically
buckled under the weight of his head loaded
underdeveloped. Some are so widely read in
with worries.
anglican literature that they are capable of
His chest stuck out (if that could be
discovering in each word, a second meaning,
an inner meaning and meanings that are un~ . imagined with a sagging body), the N.C,C.
leaving its mark. His stomach, of course,
meant and there are those who find the anglo~
presented a shrivelled appearance. The mess
saxon tongue utterly incomprehensible, especi~
too had made its impression upon him. After
ally in the form of jokes.
he'd passed me, 1 just happened to look
The central feature of our Saturday evening
around; where the rotundity of his rearside
entertainment is the mass participation. It is
had formerly existed, one could see a flatness
as if the actors step out of the Silver Screen.
remarkably prominent. Permanent contact
mingle with the audience and together create a
with a flat chair had brought about that bit of
new version of the film. Indignant public
evolut!on, 1 would say.
opinion and the arrival of the 35 mm. have
Just goes to shoW. that even guys like
reduced the extent of participation in recent
Darwin can be right sometimes: But I'll lay
times but it will always be there.· .Mystery,
any
wager that even Charles did not antici~
drama, romance and wit have never had a
pate such fast evolution 1
chance-diluted unrecogizab~y by an in~
BIG NOSE.
cess ant flux of wise cracks-some undeniably

An Ecological Study

most

5

Insult in the Night
To me. that night seemed in no way different from a pre~periodical night. I sat at my
table, burning the ten p.m. oil. Only, my effort
,vas not directed towards my performance in
the next morning's test; rather, it was direct~d towards a probl~n:' n;uch more complicated
m nature. To put 1t slmply, I was wracking
my brains (or, if you insist, my head) on
writing an article for my own, my very own
campus newspaper-Campastimes. Unless
you are a prototype of Lord Brahma or goddess Saraswathi, you will know what I me&.~ ..
To quote Vikram, 'Writing for Campastimeli is
a questi,:n of either inspiration or desperation.'
Well, 1t was almost ten o'clock when I heard
a knock on my door, followed by a faint but
confident, 'Sar J '
That did it. All the meticulously built up
situations contributing to my plot and the
~nstable anticlinla:c which perched on top of
1t~all came twnblmg down. My concentration
was shattered. In such. situations, one needs
nerve; only. Yul Brynner would not have
pulled at his hair and screamed !
• Come in.' I sighed.
A cocky little bantam of a man stepped in.
It did not take ~e long to recognise him as a
member of that species which goes around
spreaaing the itch which has caused many a
surreptitious s~ratch. Yes, it was the dhobi
in person.
Before I made any effort to surmise the
reason of his presence in my room at that
IlTian hour, he han!ied me a soiled piece of
paper. It read:
Sir,
,
Last night the iron feU from the table and it
broke. Please contribute. Thank you.
M. KANNAN.
Folllowing this letter was a long list of the
Saraswathians who had contributed. It came
as a shock. lSurely, surely it couldn't be
true? But there it was. Why, sums as big
as fives and tens against names as dash as
dash and dash. I almost immediately decided
so say • sorry' and get. over it; but no, not
when Dash had made such a generous contribution. It was a challenge t However, it
tickled my curiosity. My delayed reflex was
to rush over to DasH's room and ask him if he
really did it. But then I didn't have to go to
that extent, as will be explained,
I rummaged my drawers and finally suc·
ceeded in digging out a fifty paise bi.t. I
gave it to him.· He .took it without stopping
to scratch his nut. However, it waS when 1
picked up my pen to register the benevolent
contribution on his list that a classic expres·
sien spread over his face.
• SarI'
'Eh?'
• Please put ten rupees, sar 1 '
1 need not tell you that I was shocked.
< Sar, if one put fifty paisa everyone give
fifty paisa I! '

I could hoos yelle,d all night.

RAKE.

