6

l October.

CAMPASTIMES

On Receiving Letters

CARICATURES

Its about a year now :since Vijay Reddy
started brewing those delicious little cups of
tea. Each little cup had a different flavour,
but none has tasted flat.
One publications committee after another
has ttied to outdo itself in the pursuit of
humour. Successive editors of Campostimes
have hunted wit and laughter with missionary
zeal, like Galahads after the Holy Grail
They missed. the whole point. Humour can
be forced. And when they couldn't find the
genuine stuff they settled for less and filled
the rag with mongrel wit and sick humour ..
. : .. the sicker the better. Editors have come
and editors have gone, with the fond belief
that the IITian must be dished out jokes and
more jokes and nothing more but jokes. The
assumption is that the average clod over
here can appreciate nothing else. Pardon
the long digression, but Vijay Reddy has
time and again nailed this lie with his' cup'.
By no stretch of imagination can his column
be called hilarious • • • • in fact it is a little
(only a w~e little) pontificia1. But it captures
the l'eader's mind with its sense of timing,
uncompromising forthrightness and apt simile
(remember the one about ostriches 1).
There are gentlemen who sneer' superciliously that they dont care for the serious
criticism and thinly veiled serm6nising f over.
a cup'. Yet, in a deep recesses of "their
thick skulls, even they, I'm sure cannot help
but admire the honesty and conyiction that
concocts Vijay's column, and th'e strikingly
effective language in which it is dished out.
Vijay's C cup' has always provided drink for
thought. It has been the saving grace of a.
couple of otherwise mediocre issues.

*

"

1967

*

Now to come to grips with the subject
proper. It is difficult to write anything
funny about Vijay. There is no nonsense
about him.

He is quiet, unas~uming ant! patient.
Generously endowed WIth grey matter, he is
a topper in class and an excellent sportsman .•
•• . he plays tennis and T. T. and was a
member of the rowing team that went to
Ceylon. Vijay is deeply interested in. nuclear
.engineering, and right now he is constructing

an • Atom Smasher' with Dutta and Kimbo.
A true all-rounder, there are'very few things
he cannot do (like tying his longyi properly).
Tall. lanky and gangly, he is a living proof
that Adam really swallowed the apple in a
hurry; Guys in class sometimes wipe their
inky hands on his mop of hinky hair. Thammanapalli Narayana Reddy, Vijayanarayana
. Reddy hails from Patagonia.
Ramani Swamy insists that Vijay once tried
to kill him with poisoned mutton puffs.
Knowing Ramani as I do. I wish Vijay had
tried a little harder. However there is evidence to show that Vijay is a warmly human
creature. He once decorated his room
(which badly. needed decoration) with a fish
tank. However he soon found out that tend~
ing fish was a trifle tedious. So with a sad
heart he gathered his pets in ajar, took them
all the way to the river and with loving care
released them. So that the poor mites could
tide over their acclimatisation period he
dropped a week's ration of fish feed after
them. He came back to Tapti and hogged
fish curry for dinner without batting an
eyelid.
Vijay has a polite way of saying goodnight
to nocturnal guests~ Just before going to bed he
always brushes his teeth. If it's past bedtime
an4 the conversatio~ shows no sigh of flagging, he pulls out his toothbrush, applies
paste and starts bl;.ushing in situ. The hint is
invariably taken.
You can get to know Vijay better by readM
ing in between the lines of I cup " then by
reading this apology, for a t caricature'.
In retrospect, one sadly wonders ~hether
Vijay's brilliant, bubbling cups' of tea have
been wasted .on those for whom they were
intended. The 'kattans' at OAT are still
going strong with,. their antics and or.an~e
peels ~. the ostrich~s have dug their heads '}n.
deeper; the two oafs ,;Lt the Gajend.ra:drCle
continue to change colgurs; Kfl:icl(~Kna,~'~
menu still flatters the fare and mocks 'the
purse. Sometimes, in :exasperation_,~, and
despair one wishes for a cup of ~ that not
only scolds but really scalds.
-8UOARSAN

I guess that the moSt exdting and suspensefilled event of the day is when a dapper
person, clad in khaki, makes his 'appearance
around lunch~time. He is immediately
mobbed by a scoit:.::~{f freelyMperspiring, eager
IITians, who bar his"way and, with threatening looks On their '. .faces, rattle away their
room numbers, and demand their letters.
, As they turn away, it is most interesting
~o watch the play of emotions on their faces.
Consider, for instance, the fellow who's got a
lette~ from hom~-just a few lines saying that
all's well and how much he's being missed i
this fellow's walking on thin air, and there is
a di!!tinct spring in his step. There goes a
chap.; who' has obviously got a letter from his
'girl. He has kept it in his breast-pocketnext .to his h~art! so to speak-and is
dashing off to read it in the privacy of his
rooIIJ.: Behind these few chaps comes the
swelhng throng of all those who have not got
any letters.
,
The attitudes towards receiving letters are
varient and, sometimes novel. Batty, for
example, is a neutral case.' He enjoys receiving his " ~airy quota of two letters; but
coupled with pleasa~:t experience is the
unpleasa~; '. oblig;atioe/ ,oto reply to _ these!
Kammy is a dlfferent type altogether. He
strides up to you narcotically';ahd, -when you
ask him whether he has received aAetter. pat,
comes the reply 'Arre Yaar, my Dad and I
have ~n understanding-we write to eagh
other once a. .month; he sends the draft and I
send the acknowledgment.
Then there are thd guys who get letters
fr~m abroad. ,These <?haracters are always in
a state of tension induced ,by antisocial
elements who loiter around, confront the
postman when he arrives, grab the letters, rip
off the stamps and leave behind badly mutilated scraps of paper. .
An IlTian possesses a sixth sense which
tells him when one of his pals is gtHng to get
a grub-parcel. Invariably, the postman is
escorted to the unfortunate's room and grub
polished off in no time. These guys remember
t~e famine in Bihar and to them wastage is a
Sl11.

There'S a commotion below. By George I
the Postman's come! ' Hey Bostm~~JJl? tl}.et~'
a letter for me? Room No. 223 r No'?
Drat I J
C. K. SHARMA.

FAREWELL
Well, this is it. The end of all the thrilling, intimate moments I have had with you
ever since my good pal Francis introduced you
to me. Oh, those minutes whem my lips.
clung on to you I
I recall those days in my college .when I
used to go to any extent ,to gathe1 money. to
reach you. Those irritating old men woUld
not let me bring you inside the campus. We
had to part in melancholy as the gate-keeper
watched intently.
,
After graduating, I went to live with my
stingy uncle who drilled his oWIl~as into my. ,
brain. In those' two years I could never
once meet you; I watChed, with envy, many
"people go out merrily with your ~ype.
Thank heavens~ my s~cond uncle invited
me to stay with~ 'him. I have had real roasty
times ever since. I have enjoyed marathon
sessions with you on holidays. Kicked up with
your aroma, I was merry as a lark.
But - how can I tell you? That old
hag, my aunt, had to turn up and topple the
apple-cart of the family. She literally blew a
storm through us - me and my parents.
She boomed about, seeing me going vexy'
steady with ypu (she could ,~mel1 it, .ho I ho \)
and' seeded,.in my dad's brains, the idea of
tying a knot around me before things got out
of hands.
D~,~ ~a~ crisp alJout the whole affair.
I must forget you for eyer. Darlingt my
hell'rt,'lVeeps. Never mind, honey, you can
find thousands like me,. I, cannot.
----puff----puff.
(I crushed my last cigarette in the ash
tray]."
P. SUNDARAM •

