PLAYMAKING

Just lik~ a schemer in football, a playmaker in a basketball team is a must. Today's
basketball demands that the players should be able to have all the skills and play in
all the different positions. But even then due to human limitations one player cannot
do everything as perfectly, and hence specialisation takes place.
The 'playmaker' is the one, who controts the game and initiates plays necessary
to break up the defense. He finds the weaknesses in the defense and starts to direct
his attack, taking into consideration the weaknesses.
As stated earlier, it is not only the plavmaker who has to execute assist passes
but also the other players. In fact the schemer rs the one who starts and directs attack.
He studies he defensive techniques and adjusts accordingly. Playmaking alone does
not make a player very useful in the team. His limitations can also be exploited by the
opponents. Hence he has also to be a good forward, or a strong guard, so that he
can also help his team either by offense or defense. If the schemer cannot shoot he
is going to have trouble in passing, driving etc., since the defense will sag from him
and put pressure on other strong forwards or a tough centre. This will reduce his value
on the basketball floor. If he can make up for it either with good defense or strong
rebounding', then he may prove useful.
In individual games one has to analyse one's opponents. In team games one has to
analyse not only'one's opponents but' also one's own teammates. This analysing of
one's own teammates is very important, so that one can make the correct moves at the
right moment. A pass which can be received by a player is a good pass. But one that cannot
be received even though the receiver may be absolutely free is the responsibility of the
passer. The pass executed must be according to the ability of the receiver. This knowledge of the abilities of the players helps one in controlling the game. If a fast advance
pass is executed towards a slow moving centre, then he is going to have trouble in
receiving it. Similarly if a short player has been given a very high pass or a very
tall centre (who is not very mobile) a bounce or a rorl pass, then the chances of the
pass not being received are very high. Hence it is very important to execute the correct
type of pass for each and every teammate.

Dribbling is a necessity for a playmaker. He has to drive in and attract the
defensive players towards him and then lay up passes for his teammates for easy

