How to Lecture Effectively
The following is reprinted from "TOIKE-OIKE," the under graduate Newspaper of the
Engineering Faculity at the University of Toronto.

The beginning of the lecture serves to
create the atmosphere of the whole, hence it
is imperative that from the very start you
make it known once and for all that you are
Top Dog. This may be done in several ways.

them and a general feeling of apprehension
will have been created. The lecturer is then
looked on as the one who will translate these
hieroglyphics of higher learning for the
academic cavemen of the class.

The most direct approach is to start the
lecture five minutes early, before all the
students have had a chance to arrive. This
automatically establishes you as a "let's not
mess around" type. Any dissenting murmurs can be subdued with a mumbled "We
have a lot to cover; and, anyway, you missed
a lecture at Thanks giving.
The beauty of
this method is that it can also be used to
make students feel guilty and ill-at-ease.
This is done by waiting until the rest of the
class starts straggling in and, when the
inevitable floor-board creaks, turning around,
surveying the class with an icy stare and then
mumbling something like" ......... don't mind
......... coming in late ......... but some people
•••.•• more considerate ...... ?"

In deJivering the Jecture you should keep
in mind that the mode of delivery depends on
the subject matter. In general, subjects can
be divided into three branches; the difficult,
the tricky, and the easy. These are further
divided into the largery boring, the mildly
interesting, and the very interesting. However,
because of the very rare . occurrence of the
ratter category, the discussion here will be
limited to the former two.

II

Another very effective opening is to
describe the traffic jam coming down from
the house and to follow this with some
derogatory remarks about the traffic police
or the automobile manufacturers. This invariably sets you up as a good joe. an aI/right
guy, and "quite a character, eh?
A technique favourite among lecturers of
subjects
connected
in
any way
with
mathematics consists of coming in early,
standing at the board with the back to the
class, and manipulating with very complicated
mathematical expressions. These are rubbed
off about a minute before lecture time, but
by then most of the students will have seen

(a) Difficult, largely boring
These subjects constitute a high percentage of the work done here. It is vital that
the lecturer not enter into a discussion of the
topic with any individual student. This can
generally be avoided by covering the material
at a rate so great that all of thl~ class' attention is focused on the bodily tra nsfer of
the work from the board to the notes.
Sometimes, however, a question is asked.

In this emergency the following treatment is
recommended:
1.

Ignore it.

2.

Look disgusted. This often makes the
student feel self-conscious and may
result in his utter defeat immediately.

3.

Repeat what you have said in the last
five minutes, but do it in thirty seconds.

