line fifteen seconds after it was written,
putting
extra lines in
the middle of
completed sections preferably on an angle,
and writing on a wet board with hard chalk.

(c)

Tricky, largely boring

Here it is often necessary to explain
some obscure point to a student. However,
this can also be used as a tool to affirm
your superiority over the class. In preference
to thE':; methods outlined in (a) we suggest
the Ufurther research" technique.
The further research technique consists
of repeating in a paraphased form your statements of the last three minutes and then of
immediately qualifying them by: (1) describing how Oppenschwetzer at Princeton had
already spent four years studying this point;
(2) listing six references, four imaginary,
"Very good on this sort of thing"; (3) reminding the class that this was simply another
theory and was probably no better than put
forward by Ponsonby and Fotherington-Hyde
twenty years previously.
Or, if no ready
explanation is available assuming a resigned
expression and saying that '1f you Question
this you might as well start counting on your
fingers again," Whichever method you use be
sure to finish it with a sweet "I hope this
answers your questions."
This method has the advantage of setting
you up as an individual well informed in his
field, a walking bibliography, a philosopher
of sorts, and a nice person.

(d) TrickV, mildly interesting
Two techniques of cardinal importance in
this field are good blackboard diagrams and
effective text references.
There are two classes of diagrams, the
qualitative sketches and the dimensioned
quantitative drawings. It is important that
all qualitative sketches be done with hard
chalk, with several systems of shading, at
least three kinds of broken lines, and properly
proportioned lettering. Doing this sets you up
as a person pains taking in details, a perfectionist who spares no effort a neat, tidy,

well-organized individual.
You can further
increase the beneficial effects of this by passing
it off as a "mere sketch, just to give you an
idea, you know", "a simple line diagram",
Ita rough idea. Don't copy it down; you
can do much better on your own". Saying
something of this sort not only shows your
disarming modesty but also presents the
class with visions of red pencil lines across
their best, if not quite as practised, graphical
endeavours.
The quantitative drawings require a totally
different attack. They can be done either
with very soft chalk and thick lines or with
very faint lines drawn with hand chalk,
especially effective on -ground glass boards
It is absolutely essential that rulers. squares
compasses not be used as this may suggest
that you cannot cope with the subject without outside help. All symbols should be Greek,
with emphasis on the less widely recognized
letters. This induces thQught among the students
and leads to a better appreciation of the
Classics. If at all possible, one symbol should
be used for more ·than one quantity. This
sharpens the students' power of observation
and may also lead to some very interesting
dialogue.
e.g.: "That is NOT the imaginaryi".
Oh.
you mean here? No, that is the j'th term.
The second line? Of 'Course that's the i vector.
No, no, no I That stands for internal I"
Symbols which may have an intuitive
meaning should be avoided. We recommend,
for example, the use of "tau: for volume
and "s" for area.
There are three basic manoeuvres in book
referencing which have enjoyed considerable
success over the years.
The first consists of giving a list of the
three or four "very good" books, heartily
recommending one of them, and then proceeding
to give a set of notes that makes the books
seem like Grade I Primers. This immediately
shows that you are intellectually superior to
the books' authors.

