The second technique consists of suggesting "an excellent" book at the beginning of
the year and ignoring it completely from then
on. This may be augmented by referring
often to one other book in particular, knowing
well that there is only one copy of it in
circulation.
The third technique, less widely used but
devastating, consists of ignoring the whole
question of references until three weeks before
the exams and then announcing that Eiersetzer's
"A Simple Introduction to Elementary Discontinuties" is the best book that can be found
for reviewing the year's work in Advanced
Analysis of Complex Singularities.
The inference, of course, is that the subject taught
is barely worth any mental endeavour, and
hence all students who find trouble with it
are idiots.

(e)

have a little sport guessing the number of
those who date up a new page in their
notes.
Approaching a lecture in which you plan
to put over a minor tricky point which is
not in any text, has never been mentioned
before, will never be mentioned again, and
wou Id make a good exam question, you
should enter the room with eyes half-open
and feet dragging. This gives the students
a false sense of security and the trap is set.
Making some minor
errors and having
apparently great pains in adding to a hundred
you will put the class in the mood of selfassurance which comes from a feel ing of
utter superiority. Then with two minutes to
the end of the lecture you make your rapier
thrust and withdraw before anyone thinks of
asking for an explanation.

Easy, largely boring

The main objectives are to keep the
students agitated and also- to try and sneak
a few tricky minor points past them. The
former can be achieved by high-speed
dictation, slowed down only occasionally
for breathing. Following the work from the
text can be given a change of pace by
stopping abruptly at the end of paragraph,
walking to the board, thinking for a moment
and then putting, with great dignity, the
Hrst word of the next paragraph at the upper
left-hand corner. This, should awaken most
of the dozers, especially if the chalk can be
made to squeak, and will also allow you to

(f)

Easy Mildly Interesting

The procedure here consists of simply
coming in on the first day, giving a genuinely
good reference, telling the class that this is
their snap course, leaving your office number,
and leaving.
It is hoped that the above collection of
ideas, drawn from experience and widely
practised for many years, will enable new
lecturers to assume immediate control and
mastery over their students and at the same
time to be admired as wonderful people.

