Final Year Blues
I remember reading somewhere that communism is a virus that you just can't
help catching sometime in your post-adolescent years. The same might be said.
with justification, concerning half-baked philosophyit's simply unavoidable in your
final year. With the Damocle's sword of The Outside World hanging over you,
you begin to wonder well, what am I going to do? And to most of us overprivileged, it is not merely a question of how to fend for our bread (which is
assured, say 11M or back home in God's own country) - but rather a metaphysical.
problem. Quo Vadis, home? Why exist at all? What is the point of it all? Though
Dr. Rajagopalan is likely to demur, a silent minority does do a little soul-searching
about such esoteric matters as the technologist and his obligation to society and to
humanity at large. This is naturally a largely depressing theme, one is not anxious to
realise that it's merely due to accidents of birth and up bringing that one is leading a
highly pampered existence. That, when all is said and done, one's debt to those poor
millions out there in the cold is immense. Add to this a growing feeling that after al" life
in liT was good (excepting a few perios and the like) And that you will miss your old
friends. The hostel life.
The prestigious liT tag. And then there is the sneaking
suspicion that the best years of your life are behind you, a waste land. Which
is when you end up as an introspective and/or cynical character.
Small wonder,
then, that chaps go around looking soulful, spouting Existentialism. Or loudly
proclaim their desire to run amok or to commit suicide. So the next time you see
some such poor final year guy, do lend him a sympathetic ear. Poor guy, he's
growing up.
Another prominent feature of the final year ethos, which might seem strange
to the uninitiated is the maniacal desire to acquire a female, somehow. It appears
to yours truly that fellows suddenly wake up in a cold sweat some night with the
horrible realisation 'Hey. What have I been doing in liT? I haven't even made it
to the wing carroms team Ah; woe is me!' With the net result that he starts out
next morning, spruce and clean, and proceeds Stella-wise or WCC-wise. Of course
liT females are infra-dig. And then begin the gargantuan phone calls, the sweet
nothings (Have you ever tried the Tapti phone?) Leading of course, to the Stereotyped
ending - fond farewell, fears, 'Goodbye to you' myoid and trusted friend One of
the indiscretions of youth. Let's turn 8 benign blind eye to it. Who knows when
you and I might feel the same damning impulse?
One of life's little questions-'what exactly is an IITian rike 7' Like all things
small, fraught with danger. For the answers cover the entire Spectrum from Anthony
Reddy's 'Cattle' (and less parliamentary appellations) to Anand Reddy's enthusiastic
epithets. (Incidentally, here at last, a vocal General Secretary) However one of the
more undesirable facts of an IITian mental makeup is extreme intolerance - almost
savanoralaesque in scope. We're intolerant of everything. Of bad lecturers. Of the
system of good merries.
Of poor performers on stage. Of Ayd Rand. Of Agatha
Christ. What galls me is the fact that we are presumptuous enough to consider our value
system infallible and immeasurably superior to anyone else's The 'I'm ok you're not ok',
syndrome. Which John Stuart Mill would contest hotly. Like I mean what right do
we have to sit in judgement on somebody? Let him who hath not sinned... But I retire
chastened. Am I being intolerant of a littre healthy prejudice (or to quote the
inevitable Reddy, prebias)?
-GEMINI

