A Treatise on Life in the Organic Jungle
SHANKAR (JAMUN)

One fine morning while the isomers of the organic jungle were about their
daily chores, and the sun was busy photo synthesising the chlorophyl 1, Tarzon saw
her. She was clad in curdy white hexa-methylene-adipamide (known to the inorganic
world as nylon) and was directing coy looks at him thro' her pyrex glasses.
"OHCOOHNCSOHOPCCOH", Tarzan rent the air with his organic cry, just
as his father Hydrazon used to in his prime.
"COOH", she shot back, acidly.
"Me Tarzan. You Thane", remarked Tarzan
"Methane. You Tarzan", she clarified .
•.. AN 0 a Covalent bond was established.
The formaldehydes done with, they drove off in
Benzene.

Propanol-powered Mercedes

The next morning, Thane while enjoying her usual ride on the cyclobutane
(basically a one-chain compound), caught the attention of a wicked pair of eyes,
those of Psycho Cyanide. As the aqua-regia pumped thro' his veins he hit upon
a plan. He drew out his Cathode ray gun and aimed a stream of excited neutrons
at the hapless vehicle. Thane, being an optical isomer (i.e. cockeyed) could not
spot the attack in time and the inevitable happened. Mark.1Jvnikov's rule took its
toll and the cyclo-butane was reduced to a mere heap of 1, 2-dichloro diphenyJ
hexane (popularly known as ashes.)
Speedily, Cyanide impf'isoned Thane in his
crucible and put a watch-glass over her.
On seeing this, Tarzan's inveterate sidee, reducing agent Double Band, took
the underground test tube to his master's side. Gasping with excitement, he said
"Villain Psycho-cyanide has kidnapped Thane and is holding her to ransom for
20,0000 calories. I saw it all !".
"Why,
charge !".

you

boron !",

Tarzon

fumed.

"You could have used your negative

With that he left Swinging from fibres of Dacron to creepers of Teflon, he
made his way to the cyanide cave, killing an occasional tetraheadral monster and
slaying passing carbohydras in his fury.
As sulfate would have it, Psycho was ready for a showdown in the aromatic
ring. In the bitter chemical warfare that ensued, it was evident that either of them
would not live to see another dye. Psycho whipped out his alectrotile and charged
at him malevolently. In retaliation, Tarzan brandished his nucleofile dextrosely and
carb~nised his way thro' his opponent's intricate defence structure oxidising him to
water vapor.
That evening Thane and Tarzan. arm in arm, danced to the soft Key tones
under the warm alow of the electrolights.
"Darling", she murmured, "What should we name our daughter 7"
"Methyl of course", replied the jungle king. "The IUPAC wants it that way".
'So be it', the tall diastereomers seemed to whisper in unison.

