The Final Year ITCH
Five years in this place are just five years too many, and at the fag end
of the course, when people cannot quite come to terms with the fact that they are
passing out at last, they develop a strange disease. Symptoms are common. Normal,
ordinary human beings develop a sudden desire to go abroad, waste money on
stamps and spend hours on application forms of universities, the names of which
they can't even pronounce. These symptoms have been investigated by Sridhar et
al. and are broadly classified as Acute AmeriGemia with Contracted Canadiasis. This
condition develops rather suddenly during the summer vacation and continues throughout
the final year. Normally, at the end of the cycle, Americemic Canadiasis leads to
anxiety neurosis.
The disease has one month incubation period when people send off requisitions
for application forms and wait for the application forms to arrive. At this stage
one class of individuals retain enough of their sense to cash on their comrades'
idiocy. They print the various forms and make some money in the bargain.
The patients range from individuals who are inveteral optimists to morons whG
are incorrigible pessimists. The former say things like, 'I thought of going to CornelJ
yar, but mech. department is in sad shape. MIT for me, any day I', while the latter
tirele~sly repeat, in the hope of faith-healing, 'J' " never get it yar.'
This leads on to a state when people start tearing sheets and killing rats in
frustration, trying to find out their academic standing or find out what official transcript
means. Some reveal th~ir inadequate grounding in arithmetic by trying to calculate
their CCPA etc. People in the academic section go about with upturned collars and
acquire sidies. The Alumni Placement Section gets flooded with certificates for attestation
and starts bursting at the seams.
The next stage has been termed 'Recolic'. Attendance in class zooms up and
hits the ceiling. Permanent last-benchers become first-benchers. People who never

