opened their mouths except to yawn or eat, start asking questions, of the clever
variety, in class. Some patients reach a mad frenzy and start chasing irate Assistant
Professors with addressed envelopes. At this stage, it is rather contagious and the
staff members also get affected. This effect varies widely among those affected.
One type finds that the chap they never saw in all their lives is a lily in the field
and proceed to say so in the recommendation letter. Another type develops temporary
amnesia and finds that they don't even know the chaps they have taught for years
on end.
When actual filling up of the apprication form stares them in the face, peopre
get imaginative suddenly and filr their bio-data with all kinds of wishful thinking.
Megalomania is noticeabfe. Jf he has written, " took an active part in the Institute
debate,' it actually means that he was ringing the bell for marking time. 'Contributed
articles for Campastimes' means that after six cokes and a treat in Knick-Knack,
the editor promised to publish an insipid letter to the editor by the unfortunate
patient. 'Held responsible posts in the Hostel Council' means that he was a member
of the mess committee.
At the terminal stage, some secondary effects are also seen. People who never
uttered a word above three syllables before in their life, go about saying things like,
·Superca'ifragilisticeps~lidocious. This condition is known as GRE (General Reading
and EngHepsis).

Other secondary effects like TOEFL (Tryon for easy foreign rife), and ATGSB
(Additional try of generally stupid blokes) have not been fully studied. This time
of the year, varrous Departmental societies find subscription money pouring in (it
is asked for in the application forms). People develop an acute distrust of fellow
human-beings and open envelopes they aren"t supposed to open (reco letters you
b3t). Comparisonitis is also common in some who never tire of asking, 'X got 96
and 99 in GRE _yar. I got 40 and 50. Do you think I stand a chance?'

Some external complications and secondary infection also develop at this time.
The culprit has been found to be 'AIRLINES ALlTALlOSIS' of the Submonella
Typhoosa family. These chaps from airlines go about giving things like passport
forms and vaccination certificates and, above all, they furnish fundas on where and
how to get loans. Patients who develop this complication generally land up in the
boddy hatch i.e. lunatic asylum.
Aetiofogically and symptomatically, the author feefs that only one remedy will
have any effect. By plugging everybody in 3rd year at least a few times, the
occurrence of this endemic disease can be averted to some extent. Even though it
sounds a bit drastic, it is the only sure-fire method.
A few of the victims pull through to write about their own stupidity.
tru Iy is one of them.

Yours

SRIDHAR

