CATCH THE MULTIBUS & BE ON BOARD
"For the first time, High Performance, Microprocessor based
Building Blocks and Total Systems Training package"
Introducing the Advanced Micro Tutor Series-A
complete range of products that offer Multibus compatible solutions to
teach Computer Science, Engineer & Develop Real Time Systems
Processors :

Two new processors that are guaranteed
to simplify your Multibus System design
ATS 86
Based on 8086, 5 or 8M Hz, with socket
for 8087 NDP
On board RAM of 8K Bytes
On board sockets for 64K bytes of RAM /
EPROM
Multilayer board for low noise operation
3 Isax connectors for expansion
Printer and Serial Ports
Timer and interrupt Controller
ATS 85

Based on 8085
On board sockets for 2K RAM 8KB EPROM
Printer and Serial Port
Two ISBX Connectors
Timer and Interrupt Controller
Memory Module:
The ATM 056- To speed up your System
Design time & performance
Expandable from 64K to 256K Bytes
Jumper selectable base address
Parity error check
I/O Controllers
For optimising your effort & budget with a
(ATF) or sax
choice of Multibus
compatible (ATX) Floppy Controllers Both
Control upto four drives of 5r' or 8" and
have on board phased lock loop data
separators
And to complete the system everything
one needs as essential accessories is
available immediately; 6 or 8 lot
Multibus Card Case with Power Supply,
Enclosure and even Prototype and Extender
B03rd:i "Design in" your unique Multibus
and SBX HardwarrJ wIth our Prototype
B::>ard'i, "Debug" the Hardware with
Extender Boards.

Packaged Micro Tutor Systems:
To enable your system design & ideas to get off
the ground quickly. MTS 85 and MTS 86 are
ergonomically designed packaged systems that
are incredibly cost effective & are configured
around the standard Multibus Building Blocks.

MTS 86 consists of 16 bit CPU, 256K Memory
and Floppy Controller in a Multibus enclosure
with PSU and 3 additional slots for user
Hardware.
MTS 85 consists of 8 Bit CPU, 64K Memory,
Floppy Controller (ISaX Bus) in a Multibus
enclsoure with PSU and 4 additional slots for
user Hardware.
Development Packages:
To provide an immediate Ultra Productive
Development environment, AMD recommends
the ADP 85 and ADP 86 developed by Micronic Devices to make the time consuming task of
development of your application efficient &
cost effective.
.
ADP 85 Development Package for MTS 85
The Software is a preconfigured CPM 80 with
Assembler. Application Packages developed on
AD? 85 can run on the AMX 80 Real Time
Executive.
ADP 86 Development Package
Designed for MTS 86
The package ;s a preconfigured RMX-86, Real
Time Executive System, to enable user to
develop application programmes in PL/M 86
and ASM-86. Further, utilising the available
optional upgrades, the user can configure the
RMX-86 for his target system. The package
comes with Floppy Drives and accessories
immediately interfaceable with the MTS 86
System.
All these and more. From Advanced Micronic
Devices. The company that has been extending the benefits of VLSI technology to every
type of computer user. With a comm:tment to
excellence, reliability, flexibility and economy.
I

,

Advanced Micronic Devices (P) Ltd.
'Arun Complex', No. 65, D. V. G. Road, Basavanagudi, Bangalore 560 004
Branches: Bombay, Delhi, Madras, Calcutta

