Vol. VI, No. 7

liT Madras, September; 1968

2S P.

THE FIFTH COIVVOCA TION
Address

The Convocation in progress

IIT Madras has a unique way of conducting its convocations. It is one of the
few institutions which conducts this otherwise solemn ceremony before an audience
consisting of anyhody who is curious to see a convocation and who has not achieved enough
educational stature to earn a degree for himself. It is also one of the most colou!'ful events of
the institution. where each graduand can personally receive his uiploma from the Director.
The fifth batch of graduands received their diplomas on the 1st August 1968 in the
august presence of Dr. Vikram A. Sarabhai. Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.
There was more zeal and earnestness in the celebration than ever hefore, with the
open air theatre packed with spectators numbering nearly four thousand.

G. Raghavan receiving the President's Medal from Dr. Vikram 'Stlrabhai
,
,
photograph: Kubendran

Mr. Chairman, Mr. Director and Friends,
I feel deeply touched by the remarks of
Dr. A. L. Mudaliar. Invitations to address
Convocations arouse mixed feelings in me.
When I received an invitation, a warm invi~
tation. from Dr. Mudaliar, I felt very much
inclined to come here. as I hold the Institutes
of Technology in high esteem. My ties with
Madras, of course, are many: Dr. Swaminadhan
whose daughter I married, the Atomic Energy
Programme at Kalpakkam and a sate11ite~
launching station which we hope to establish
soon at a site not far from this place. What
is more, Ma'dras and the southern states
have contributed much to our scientific
activity all over India and I have many
distinguished students who come from this
area. The type of collaboration that we see
in these Institutes is one of the best that is
possible. .These Institutes build bridges
betweez: ~ur .. pro~essional people and our
academIC 'staff With the' best that the west
and other advanced countries have to offer.
I want to associate myself with the sentiments
expressed by Dr. Mudaliar in this connection.

THE DIVERGING HUMAN FUNCTION
Five years ago, when you made the ~hoice
of enrolling at this Institute of Technology,
and today, as you receive your degree, the
world is rather different. Jawaharlal Nehru,
Kennedy and Khruschev are gone from the
'international scene. Nations already armed
to the teeth have continued to engage in a
spiralling arms race and bombs rain every day
from the skies over North and South Vietnam.
Violence is rampant the world over. There
is disenchantment with aid and with military
alliances. Manned exploration of the moon
and, in this country, the pursuit of engineer~
ing studies ,do not have the same glamour as
before. Politi<?al life in Red China, in the
United States'j and in India, is chaotic and
social goals perceived with cynicism.
What is happening around us 7 Has the
uncertain world come to stay with us? The
affliction is not peculiar to us; rich nations
and poor ones, large and small, powerful
and weak, those in military alliances, the nonaligned and the neutral, all manifest the sarrie
symptoms. The scenario is different, in
France, in United States, in Poland, in Japan
and in India. And so are the methods by which
societies, try to deal wi,th these problelllS.
But a common thread runs through aU these.
1 wish today to share with you some .of my
thinking, for, I believe that the present is
particularly threatening to those like you who
embark on a professional career for the' first
time.
, Everyone (':here is undoubtedly. familiar
with the e1{pr~ssio:n • three raised to the power
of eighteen'. . It is a large number-38,74,
20,489, rhirty eight crores, seventy*fQur
Iakhs; twenty thousand, four hundred and
eighty~nine, to be exact. What it means in
dyna~i,? term~ is qui,te'dran1atic. If Il; ~erson
spre~ds. a gtis~ip to fust .. three others anel t~e
s~rrie 'is"passed on by each of them to thr~e

