2

CAMPASTIMES

others, and 80 on in succession, in just
eighteen steps almost the entire population
of India would share the spicy story. Note
that if each step takes one hour, 90 per cen~
of the people hear the gossip for the first
time only during the seventeenth and the
eighteenth hours. Indeed during the whole
of the first 80 per cent of the time, the
process affects merely I I per cent of the
population. Even though each individual
is partaking in the chain reaction exactly
like aU the others, who preceded him. that
is, he receives information from one person
and passes it on to three others, the social
impact at a late stage of development hits
like an avalanche. When we have a new
infection. initially it is barely perceptible,
but as the biological organism multiplies
through successive generations, at a certain
moment it suddenly permeates through the
whole system. You can observe this fascinating phenomena in making Dahi, or Yoghurt,

wield power and influence over world afiairs
to adopt values and behaviour, inherent in
an order where accelerating change, rather
than stability, is dominant.
I suggest that today we witness a crisis of
obsolescence. The qualitative change which
has occurred in the last decade with the
development of atomic energy. with the
exploration and use of space, with the advent
of electronics and computer sciences, is a·
manifestalion of the divergent human function
which has suddenly overtaken the world.
What we have witnessed so far, dramatic as it
is. is probably pedestrian compared to what we
can expect in the future. We have heard of
the feasibility of areas of the earth's surfac{:
illuminated during the night with sunlight
through giant reflectors attached to satellites.
We have also heard of weather modification,
by increasing precipitation of rain in certain
regions through artificially seeding clouds.
There has been a Iluggestion of puttlUg into

( September. 1968

WILKOMMENS
1.

Dr, Phillip BessIich,
Professor, Electrical Engg.

2.

Mr. Edward Fisher,
FOr6mall, Metallurgy.

3.

Mr. lVJanfred Rehkop,
Foreman, Metallurgy.

J. Geiger,
S.S. A~itsta1lt, Applied Mechanics.

4. Mr.

Bllarata Natyam

Natyalaya Artistes
Impress
By
OUR DANCE CRITIC

On the eve of the Convocation, the Natyalaya
provided us with ninety minutes of dance that
was a feast to eye and ear. After the Prayel'
Song to Lord Ganesha, the programme commenced with Alarippu in the traditional
Bharata Natya style. It was followed by
vasanta raga jathiswaram which the three
dancers executed skillfully.
The Varnam ill Anandabhairavi (Sakhiye)
was the next item. It is about a maiden
r~lating to her Sakhi, her yearning for MahaVIshnu. Although the dancer was at times
unable to cope with the pace of Nattuvangam
in this piece, her performance was commendable. The way in which she began the
Charanam was crisp. However, in one or two
instances her neck movements were faulty.
There was a change in the programme afte1'
Varnam. Instead of the Tiruvembavai piece,
KaUakrishnan '-a folk dance usually danced
by six or eight people-was performed by two.
This piece is about the Gopikas' description
of Sri Krishna's childhood pranks. Unfortunately there was no coordination between the
two dancers.
In 'Ananda Natamaduvar " which is about
Lord Shiva dancing at Chidambaram, the
dancer's abhinaya was skillful.
, Prabhandam is about Lord Krishna at
Brindavan. This and the last item from
'Azhagarmalai Kuravanji' were amusing.
The Thillana in Kedargowla was impressively
rendered.
I

George Vcrghese receiving the Govelllor's Medal from Dr. Sarabhai

or Thayir, as you call it here. In the same
way, information, knowledge. innovation.,
people and things diverge rapidly and their
collective effects appear suddenly even though
the basic process in each case has proceeded
over a long time-span. When considering
the social implications of technological change,
one usually mentions the effects of the
machine age on society through automation
and imposed conformity. But these are
trivial compared to the wider social implications of innovative man, who with curiosity,
ingenuity and ambition, tries to reach out
from his natural envirorunent, and starts divergent processes.
In nature, left to itself, conttol is maintained
through an ecological balance. Order is not
imposed from above, but arises through the
interaction of each unit with its environment
in a dynamic equilibrium. On the other
hand, inherent in a programme of accelerated
development, there is a suppression of some
of the natural constraints which prevent
divergence. And as the rate of innovation,
of discovery and of everything else in the
world gets faster and faster,' so does the
obsolescence of people .and things become
ever more acute. In contrast, biological
development continues at its own pace. The
child still requires nine months to develop
in the womb. His life-cycle of learning, of
adolescence, as a house-holder and as an
elder who lays down the law, remains
essetltially unchanged. The situation is
aggravated because of the increase in the
life span of the human being. The contradiction between desired longevity in a world
of increasing change is obvious. An inevitable
result of all this is the disillusionment of the
young concerning the understanding and
behaviour of the middle aged and the old.
Equally serious is the inability of those who

orbit a belt of dust particles over the equator
~uch that it would change the distribution of
solar energy penetrating to different regions
of the earth. It is claimed that such a belt
could reduce the heat in the tropics and
scatter more to high latitudes, providing a
temperate climate even in the polar regions.
This has many frightening possibilities
because the level of the oceans would rise
and submerge many inhabited areas. New
leads in biology and genetics pursued l'elentlessly are creating situations with implications
few have thought through. Population control
using the pill has tied up into knots theologists
wishing to interpret the sayings of the holy
books in terms of current needs of society
and new concepts of life. Just as doctors are
faced with the problem of determining what
death is before spare parts surgery would be
justified, international lawyers rack their brains
to determine an objective criterion for identifying where air space ends and outer space begins
in which national sovereignty does not exist.
Affairs in the 1960s are largely in the hands
of those who were already grown up when
the Second World War broke out. Their
learning experience and their theoretical
knowledge relates principally to a period
when the world was qualitatively different.
The concepts of national sovereignty I of
international spheres of influence, and power
politics of the classical type ha ve hardly
changed even though we are constantly
watched from satellites in outer space above
us, and our security is threatened not merely
by hostile neighbours, but by the actions and
indiscretions of distant pow~rs. What is the
relevance of foreign bases in the context of
long range missiles and nuclear submarines
lurking unseen and silent on ocean floors r
Is the Indian Ocean Indian any longer 1
(Contd. on p. 3)

photogmph : Kubendran

Occasionally, the music was not distinctly
audible. Perhaps a female singer could have
put over the numbers with greater clarity.
In spite of smalL lapses, the programme provided an entertaining interlude.

