September. 1968

1

How shall we preserve democratic States
where the media of mass communications
provide means of instantly reaching downwards from centres of authority. but, short of
public agitation, there is 110 authorised
<:hannel for the reverse feed back for controlling the political system between elections?
Wbat should be the goals of education in a
world of obsolescence ?
We find ourselves largely unprepared to
. meet the new situation, just as the natives of
North America, who were struck by smallpox infection brought by immigrants. In
real life, it makes a lot of difference how we
view these occurrences. We have the situation in India, in common with many other
countries, of students challenging the authority of Universities and of the establishment.
Those who assume that the students are
indisciplined and wayward, suggest that getting them involved in some activity such as
the N.C.C. would set matters right. On the
other hand, if one regards protests of students
at Columbia, at Sorbonne and at Banaras as
manifestations of a deeper malaise of society,
the powers that be would introspect rather
than preach.
There is no easy solution. But there is, I
believe, much that we Can learn from an
analogue that we find in the peaceful applications of atomic energy; more precisely, in the
technique of extracting energy liberated in the
nssion of UTauium. A't. is weU~known, when
'an atom of the 23.5 isotope of uranium is hit
by neutrons, it has a tendency to split into
two lighter atoms, the combined weight of
the splinters being less than the weight of
the original atom. In the process of fission,
not only is the diHerence of mass liberated
as energy, but additional neutrons are
released. Then these neutrons hit othel'
fissile atoms, a chain ,reaction occurs and
the process can continue like the divergent spread of a gossip. We require a
critical mass of uranium before the chain can
be self-sustaining and indeed when there is no
other control device~ the mass explodes
through the sudden liberation of a large
amount of energy on reaching criticality.
This is what constitutes an atom based on
fission.
When we wish to extract useful
power out of the self-sustaining chain reaction
of fission, we have to prevent the divergent
release of neutrons, and of energy in the mass
of the system. This needs t,h e establishment
of a large number of control loops which
constantly and simultaneously sample the level
of the reaction at various points of the reactioning volume and sensitively adjust the
position of neutron ab~orbers. strategically
placed at various positions ip the core of the
reacter. Divergent trends are almost instantly
~ompensated. 'An operator can. shut down
the reactor by pushing neutron absorbers
into the core. But no reactor can be maintaiJ)ed;, in ;t .steady state of self-sustained

3

CAMPASTI MES

activity. necessary for providing useful energy,
on the basjs of exclusive reliance on gross
controls operated with imperfect feed back
loops. Indeed the control of potentially
divergent systems relies on sensitive information loops which operate quickly in
response to minute changes of activity.
What we can learn from this analogue in the
social context '1 That control of the divergent
human function cannot be maintained through
the macro system of a super government.
We need a system which permits an infinite
number of micro control loops spread through
the ~3b~ic, of societr. An authoritative regime
can mhlblt the divergent human function,
but only at the cost of inhibiting develop~
ment itself. Ironically, free societies arc the
ones which are most prone · to the social
impact of run away divergencies. It is in
such free societies that the power of the Super
State, the super authority in education and
for -developmental tasks, is most difficult to
s~stain. I, am intrigued by how closely this
hne of thtnking brings us to Vinobaji's and
]ayap~ak~sh's ideas on social and political
Ol'gamzatlon,
We are faced with the problem or divergent human function manifesting itself on the
world scene, while in India we are still trying
to shake ourselves free from poverty. We
have, I believe, to create a social system and
a pattern of development which is based not
on monolithic organizations operating impersonally at an all Indialevel or even at the level
of the States, but in units, where the feed

back lOOp l has a high fidelit.y fot eommunicati?n an4, a quick response. I am convinced
for mstance, that our education system would
lmmeasurably benefit if it were liberated from
the. mop.opolistic, privileges under which
Uruverstties take hold of all educational
matters at a certain level in allotted territories. Th~l:e U1 no way in which a Universi.ty
~rants Commission or an affiliating UniverSity can ensure educational standards. In
the ultimate analysis, it is only the teacher in
the class-room that can do anything in the
matter. He has to be provided the freedom
to innovat~ if! educa~ion in a changing world
and, for thiS mnovation, he has to receive the
trust of those who back him up. I would
suggest that the most effective development
of education can take place only when the
teacher, the student, his parents and the
outside environment can interact ,with one
another, in a series of feed back loops, free
from. l:egimentation and iuelevant theories
and principles preached from the top.
As engineers, you would look forward. to
play a meaningful role in society. Weare
nalionally poised to formulate a new Five
Year Plan for development• . Economists, in
the past, have been prone to regard investments in hard facilities as necessary for
economic growth. This is often true, but in
the present lcontext, it is largely fallacious.
Twenty years after Independence, we find
ourselves with a broad infra-structure of
plants and facilities in the engineering industries which are largely under-utilised.
We also find a number I)f well-established
laboratories, without clear-cut developmental
tasks which are meaningful in terms of
national priorities. What is needed now is a
major investment in design and developmental
cftort directed at indigenous capability for
carefully chosen tasks, which are impol'tant
to us. As an example, I might cite a good
transportation system providing an inexpensiye scooter or a cheap Cal'; a mass communication system which brings television to every
village in a decade; inexpensive power
through the c,ountryside based on optimisation
of grids, wi~ a combination of hydro-electric,
atomic and thermal units; a defence system
based largely on hardware related to our own
strategic needs rather than one which is
reliant on what OUf friends overseas cboose
to sell us, gift to us or help produce under
their know-p,.oW'. We can identify ·subsystems, under each of these major tasks and
we can create design and development groups,
which can operate with a wide measure of
autonomy. "They will' require trust to be
able to innovate. AU this is not a pipe
dream. I hope we have the good fortune of
realising these programmes before divergent
functions in our society blow asunder aU
that we cherish. I wish you a meaningful
participation in this task.

DiIip BbandQrkllJ" receiving th¢ Institute Special Merit PriZ.l

