September, 1968]

I.

w"

5

CAMPASTIME~

---------------------------------~TB~vle'"' VVITH

~~. ~!~~~~~.~

I

At
glance, n,.
A
easiern £.ki, <ontempIa·
ttng t}t.e w?rld at ,the end. of his hookah. The long maroQn-coloured sherwani and
the sparklm~ white churndars. seeIl!-ed to add to his personality. In the course
of .a ten ~lllnut~ tete-a-tete with h1m, Campasti1n8S reporters elicited his views on
vartous tOP1CS of mterest.
, Sir, could. y,0rl tell us something a~ollt what 'the immediate plans of the Atomic
E1Jergy CommlSSWtl are alld what the major areas oj development will be ?
As you. know, we are keen that the peaceful use of atomic energy should be
devel<?ped wlde~y through our own efforts if:! this country to back up the developmental
tasks III the nation .. ,The Kalpa.kkam atomiC power plant, is being designed and built
by our own group~ 111 the ~tom~c En.ergy Commission. More than eighty per cent of
the power plant mstaUatlons IS belOg. made in India. This means sophisticated
!lletaUurgy J contr~l systems and mechantcal fabrication-a whole lot of teChnologies are
mvolved. ~~ thu>;R: that through such a programme we can also provide electricity
ful~y competltlv~ With other, sources ~f power. We can develop a new type of selfrehant growth In our own mdustry,. tn our oWn engineering capabilities. This is one
area of ~evelopment. "Ye are plannmg many more atomic power stations of this type.
Alon~ WIth ~ I?ower station, y~u have t? h~ve a paraphernalia of other industries for
Uramum mmmg, ore processmg, fabncatlOn of fuel and electronic equipment The'
AEC is planning another major establishment at Hyderabad for the manufacture of
h~vy water.. the reprocessi~g of burnt at?mi~ fuel to extract Plutoniwn, etc. Another
ma~or area IS the field of ,Isotopes-their application to industry, biology, medicine,
agn.culture, food ,prcservatl<?n. We expect a lot of development in this field and
dunng ~ he next few. years lsotopes will fin? wide application in food preservation,
preventIOn of sproutmg of potatoes and ontons, prevention of the spoilage of fish
and in disinfection.
.
Side by .side, the AEC has als.o got the responsibility of space research. At
Thumba for Instance, the Space SCIence and Technology Centre designs and plans
to develop its own rockets of superior p'erformance leading to a satellite launching. Only
this morning I was inspecting some sites for
an Ea~t coast launching station. These are
briefly the ,lines on which the AEC will be
working on.
, Do yOIe ,tltiltk we arc justified ilL spending so
much Oil rCfcarc/t 01& subjects which do 'lOt have a
direct bearillg i1£ a developi1£g Cou1ttry like ours?
It seems to me that one's ability to solve
practical problems depends on the discipline and'
the training of the mind, of the ability to pose,
basic questions, not merely looking at things in
an empirical way but to ask why and what
for. 1 feel th:at people who engage themselves
in serious work with that approach (Whether it
is engineering or physics or anylhing else)
would like to get to the root of the thing, You
might call this basic research or not but these
are the people who are best able to solve
practical problems. It is world experience that
ten to twen,ty per cent of one's total period of
study is spent on this open ended research to
cultivate the mind. It is well worthwhile. In
our c~untry we would be well advised not to
throttle the backing or creativity of the gifted
people but to identify -and spend more on the
applied tasks beClluse this is where the investment should come and is not coming.
, Nowadays everyone is talking abOtlt the brain
drau, problem. What do you think s/zould be ths
itw81,tifJes that we mflSt give ottr scientists (lttd.
engineers if uie wa1,t t/Zem to come back?
I think most people will come back if they
have Aomething w<!rthwhile to do here. I do
not think the money aspect is most important.
Of course it is important. But it is not the
~eritical aspe~t. When we wanted personnel for
our rocket development projects, I had no
difficul~y in getting some of the best people back
Dr. Vikram Sarabhai
under c,onditions which were certainly by no
.
standards. equal to what they got elsewhere.
The Govern'ment of India seems to have given up. the small cal' project only
,the other day. Lqoking at some of your ca.talogues, I was wondering why YO,ur
institute, with its mechanical engineering laboratories, .does, not take up the ,developmental task for a s.maU car. It may cost thirty to fifty lakhs of .rupe~s. But do it.
Break up' 'the system into sub-systems ana do this job. 1£ we can produce the
rocket, tt,l.ere is no reason ,why you can't build ~,tiny ~ombustion ,engine suitable 'for
a small car. I really' believe this.
,
Do you t~#1Jk .we should have more speci~lizatiol~ itl engi1te~I'111g courses at very
early stages?' " ?', ; ' ,
. ,
, 'I believe in a, g6.o'\l study of the core sciences of Phy~ics and Mathematics as an .
essential back up to the ef:lgillcering sciences-Maths espeCialJy, beca~se I think 'you
must know the language in' which scienCe expresses 1 itself whether you are an,
engineer,' or scientist. ," The chemist here will object but there i\1 a classical remark by
Sir C. V. Raman that e'verything that is interel?~ing it?- C~emistJ"Y. ,is P.hysics. '
.
What, .do, you feel about the introduction of J'egtonal latzguoges as meduz of
:'" i,~strltcti01" of Scienc~ tl1~d Technology?
"
I ':
f
·
•
'
~ " " ,' I ~eel this great deal ,o~ effort spent on dis.c~ssing:the!.language is ' totally ~rrele~ent "
"to-,ilte 1ssue. Language, to me i.e; a means to, aft ~nd. It does not matt«r whether you
learn Chinese or Timbuktoo. You learn a language tha¥,:;.uits you best. . . ' ,
But -are we justified itl creati11g suelz (l fuss about if a"d spmding'so milch money:iu changing over jrom a language which alref!d)l,.::ex~* :.as ~he medium of instruction
almost all over the country?
'
I believe in a permissive system in society. If an individual wants to learn
in English he must be given all the facilities to learn. If he prefers Tamil, I think
that the State should certainly provide facilities for him. It would however be
unrealistic to hope that in these languages you get the same type of insight or access
to world information as others. He will probably learn at his own cost. There
is no need to compel anybody to do anything in this matter.
What do you thittk th6 role of humanities should be in a scitmtijic or tech,ucal
curriclum?
, I think they should play an important part. I personally, would like to see
that these Institutes of Technology which I prize very highly in this country (they have
done an excellent job) don't call themselves Institutes of Technology but Institutes of
something which includes Sciencel Technology and the Humanities.

1 CAN'T GET
YOU .. KNOW-WHAT
a

Quite catchy topic, isn't it ?
I'm relying on your ability to know something (Doesn't that flatter you). Before
I ~ame to lIT. I had the pleasure of being
drxlled by the Beat-X with this song in quite
a few places. (Isn't that something 1) One
more thing about this not-so-articulate article.
If you find the questions in brackets irritating, please bracket the other sentences also
in which case you will have bracketed brae:
kets and brackets which I'm sure you won't
read becau.se they irritate you. The article
ceases to exist. Get it?
Now everything boils down to writing an
article. I'm 'not going to employ. ,If-youstill-haven't-gone-off-yonr-rocker-read-t h i scrap gimmick. I am loath to become 'a
victim of this contagious disease. Apart
from that, my article will never be read-if
they obey me, that is. I think it is a cheap
cliche and all that jazz.
At present I will ConCern myself with the
study of French. And the only thing that I
know about it is that the language is loaded
with irregular verbs. l.t is aU simple, you,
know; only the . conjugation differs ' for
different persons. Most resentablc thing
about it is that the IITians try to romanticize
English by adding a flavour of Freacli to it.
Conjugation of a typical irregular verb is
this.

I am brushi~g up.
You are staying up unusually late. . He crams
like I don't know what. According to a story
making rounds in our mess (where else) a
moron, after a nervous hour at the perio,dicd
whispered to another:I was just referring answers
You managed a whole page.
He cogged the whole paper
(and got an'S' of course)

, Remem:ber those S.LE.T. girls last year?
At that . time, someone who was running
helter-skelter in OAT stopped to boast '

1. am being chivalrous..

,

You take them a bit too seriously, don~t,

you?
.
'
Mall. he is running after them 1

~Y the way, what inspired ~e t.o" write ~his
artlcle w:as a book written by John London,
the hilarycist-cum-author (stop cussing, will
you?) 'I can hear them beat till many hawks
scream with 2e orgy.' Can you make anything
out of this?, If you can, you must be given
a- ,gold medal. If you can't, don't ,give up,
hope • .. You surely must have heard of a conversational bore who said she loved to fiy off
at ,fanned-gents. If you begin ,to practiCe
this art, you will end up as a punster. Here
is the, outline of a very interesting conversation when ,a moro? ~agged a sm~r~ fresher. ,
. , Why do~tcha grin, like anyone"~ , .'
,
',,' You~re right, sir, 'I am' filled with' chagrin '
, (Blink) Ahem .•.. Keep talking, damn you "
I I
hear you were most enq-towed into
lIT'
'Er ...... 1 am ...... uh ••.••. f1at-head'
, 1 agree. Besides I hear you are an' indefatigable pill-hande:r.'
.
I Wow I
Me, 11 Philander! I H!!-ven't you,
heard something? •
,
, And on ass-pheshus days you h,ray a iot
e (Trying to be smart) I do, I do.
Where
do., you suppose ~l.' get my'. bees,..-from: .
beehives? '
• Hearing your response, r must say I am
blabber-gofsted'
C Now
I know what is wrong with you.
You have been babbling all the While. Get
lost.'
That's about all, folks. Hope you don't
search for a reason why I chose that topic.
If you find it, keep it to yourselves. How
does that gart you, snarlin ?

F-

N.I{'

