l September,

CAM PAS TIM E.-S

6

BY THE WAY
It is some time since we last leisurely
stroll through the campus, but the scene remains much the same. The same feeling of
spaciousness of unspoilt natural splendour,
penades our favourite haunts. Time has not
lessened one whit the glories of our banyanline~ avenues, nor custom softened one iota
the stark horror of the Gajendra Circle.
But the passing year has unerringly taken
its toll, and one bunch of familiar laces will
be seen no more in the corridor and mess.
'Tis strange, 'tis passing strange, to hear no
more the raucous crow of RH'S laughter, nor
see the cheery grin of SHand the set complacency of M-. The caustic tongue of yet
another RH, the studied eloquence of K-, have
passed from fact to memory and in another
On August IS, 1968, Campastimes was six
year or two will cease to be by words among
years old. Set going in 1962 by a group-pf
IlTians. It is in the fitness of things that
friends interested in publishing a small famlly
another bunch of hopefuls have started on the
paper (modestly marked' For private circula~
five year road; but strangers they remain, for
tion only') Campasti?'les has now broa~ened
official sanction does not grace our meeting.
its view lengthened Its reach and continues
In all of a month no one knows the freshmen,
more vigorously to intrude upon the IITian
and they do not know us. This is not seemly.
every month to inform him about what is
Through the usual tortuous channels the
happening around him.
word spreads that the Gymkhana ha~ consiIn the process of growing up the paper did
dered a question of significance. It is to meet
encounter many a problem: while new
the lowest common denominator IITian taste
editors tried to settle down by a process of
in entertainment and the life social-a quanti.
trial and error, it did hit low levels. Yet, it
ty so low as to tend to the negative-or is it
survives unscathed. The IITian, oblivious as
to attempt \>omething more ambitious? More
he is of anything outside 'the curriculum'
briefly, is it the Gymkhana's function to
surprisingly begins!o feel U1;easy when th~t
amuse or to educate? Experience has shown
issue of the paper IS not slipped under hIS
how consistently the exponents of the latter
door every month. :May be this is one reason
cause can be, and are, frustrated; the stalwhy it has come to stay and, indeed, to be·
warts of recent years have resignedly accepted
come part of him to such an extent that ~e
the inevitable; and we may confidently look
takes it for granted.
fonvard to glorious explosions of every possi H
hIe quality except restraint, refinement an~
The Committee of 67·68, when it took
aesthetic fineness. Here's to a more and
charge, was ~ware th~t th.ere was a lot of
louder
noise, cheaper and tinnier music,
literary potentIal, especIally 1D the hostels, that
coarser and cruder jokes-here's to the
was untapped. Special pains were taken to
triumph of the Philistine.
drive those ' stay~ins' to write about jus~ any~
Another convocation has come and gone
thing they could think of. Sometimes we
with pleasing smoothness, but not without
were successful. More attention was paid to
accentuating
one of our unessential neces·
the layout of the paper. Mention must be
sides. Greek amphitheatres are all very
made of the excellent quality of print that the
well j and when we speak of our own one
press provides us. At every stage we wert!
and only genuine pseudo-Greek amphitheatre
aided by the able guidance of Dr. Zuern, our
we are apt to wax eloquent. Yet for how
Staff Adviser and Prof. Sampath, our Publilong can we remain hopefully dependent on
sher. We do hope they will continue to take
weather, how often _pray for the storm not
active interest in the publication of this
to break, how often make alternative arrangepaper.
ments in CLT-a poor substitute indeed?
Our main consideration was, as we have
What we ought to have is an auditorium
pointed out before, you The Reader. 'We
of reasonable size and a modicum of archialways felt the necessity of • balancing the
tectural taste. One thinks enviously of the
issue' with literature for the prudish and
auditorium of the CoJIege of Engineering in
lighter reading for the less serious reader.
Guindy) not indeed as a model, but as an exWe ,vere, however, inclined to include more
ample of the terms ill which we ought to
of the latter variety simply because the reader
think. But even as I write Bitter Experience
seemed to like it that way. If you feel we
mutters that with -a halfHbuilt swimming pool
slipped in:this -respect, pardon us. _Probably
on our hands, any talk of auditoria to seat
you aren't amused very easily.
three thousand is mere folly.
I With the beginning
of the periodicals,
A problem that we always encountered-was
life in lIT may be said to have settled into
the dearth. of material that was good to print.
its accustomed course. The weeks of free
Maybe you are the type that wrote its school
evenings, so ordinary to students elsewhere;
compositions well but felt too self-conscious
can only be fleeting luxuries to us. And we
to try its hand after that. If you don't want
will explain to people that we have so little
the whole issue to be composed by a bunch
time. Tutorials, assignments, drawings, peri~
of uS and then shout 'the. same sick guys
odic9ls, lab reports-lend me a few more
again', why don't you sit down and put on
fingers, somebody. Faced with this imposing
paper how you feel about the hostel pond
list, only the IITian can know in his heart
being too deep or its terrace being too
of hearts that it is nott rue. However heavy
high?
the workload, there always is time for anything we want to _do, if we want it badly
Happily enough, the committee of '67-68
enough.
is clearing out with this last postscript of an
issue. A brand new set of editors will now
Campastimes will doubtless go on: it always
has, though the guys who type it and take it
take over. As for us, we can describe our
to press and read the proofs have just as
work in exactly five words: it was a wondermuch coarse (pardon the pun) work as the
(ul experience.
rest of us. Cultural Week will be held, the
inter~llT meet will come off, and things will
keep happening. The point is-what- do you,
you as an individual, propose to do _about it?
The Publications Comntittee w '67-6B
This isn't a question of time, it's a question
of inclination.
wishes the Publications Committee '68-69
We are nearing the end of our stroll, but
every success and hopes that it wil~
the best part of going for a walk, even
uphold the traditions and standard of
through life, is to take in the scenes on the
wayside. Getting there and back is purely
Cantpastimes. -'
incidental.

J:DITORIAL

A Postscript

s.

PARAMESHWARAN.

196'8

Letter to the baiior
Sem geehrte Heneu,
,es ist mir ein Herzensbeduerfnis, Ihnen
dazu zu gratulieren, dass mit dem deutschsprachigen Artikel • Die deutsche Rezitation '
der April-Nummer die Campastimes ein
wahrhaft internationales An-und Aufsehen
erreicht hat.
Ieh war entziickt tiber den' guten StH und
die treffende Ausdruckswcise dleser Kurzgeschichte.
Die gro~se Sorgfalt LInd die Geschicklichkeit im Umgang mit del" deutschen Sprache,
welche der Verlasser bewiesen hat, £nden
allerdings im Wahrheitsgehalt keine Entsprech
ung:
I. D{:r Schreiber stellte fest, dass • die
Einladul}g zu dieser Veranstaltung in deutsch
abgefass~ und an aUe Deutschcn im 1.1.1'.
geschickt ' wurde.
Als Inder hatte el" wissen rr.u3sen, dass
aus dem Verschicken der Einladung noch
nicht dar auf geschlossen werden darf, dass
diese auch ihren Emp! anger erreichen.
Er hiitte diese Informatiollsschwierigkeit
weniger'seltsam' als vielmehr 'bedauerlich'
finden mussen.
Tatsachlich hat niimlich ein GraBsteil
der Deutschen im I.l.T., wie ich durch
eine Umfrage feststeUte, eine Einladung
nicht erhalten.
2. Der Schreiber behauptete, dass es fur
Herrn Dr. Klein und mich • gewissermas~
sen Pflicht war', an dt:r Veranstaltung
teilzunehmen.
Die Veranstalter haben mich sehr
Mfiich als Richterin eingeladen (' We would
deem it a privilege if you could officiate as
a Judge '), und ich habe aus Freude und
echtem Interesse angenommen.
Ich glaube aueh, der Schreiber tut
H(~rrn Dr. Klein bitter Un recht, wenn er
ihm -nur Pflichterfullung unterstellt.
3. Der Schreiber behauptete, ausser den
beiden Pfiichterfullern seien keine weiteren
Deutschen aus dem 1. 1. T. anwesend
gewesen.
Das ist nachweislich nicht richtig.
4. Der Schreiber behauptete, der deutsche
Stab habe sich wegen einer gleichzcitig
stattfindenden Sitzung entschuldigt.
Meines Wissens war kein Deutscher
autorisiert, eine • Entschuldigung' abzuge~
ben. Ebensowenig ist aber auch irgendein
Njchtteiln~hmer jener Sitzung, wie zum
Beispiel der Schteiber, befugt, ein abHi.Uiges
Urteil uber • Stichhaltigkeit' oder Dringlichkeit einer solchen Sitzung abzugeben.
Mit freundlichen Grussen
I

.-----_._-------FRAU HEDY WAGNER.

OBITUARY-

It ls witT! deep ,'egret and pe,-soIUl{ sOl-row
tTz'lt we report the passiltK away of
Sh,-i K. Sridhar (Class oj '68) 071 lIth
August .1968 as n remit oj a tragic
motorcyt;le actide"t. A stlldent oj the ISt
M. Tech. (Che11l. EIIgg.) Class, he was all
olltstatldingcricketer alld bridge player, and
"Was Olle of the more popular stl/dellts of
the Class of '68, k1l()fV1I for his cMer/li/ness

al/djol/ity.

Requiescat in pace

