;September. 1968 j

Another summer has come and gone.
That's OK, for none of us are summer
lovers-Madras summers at that, but what
reaUy hurts is that the vacation has also
come and gone. Saddest must indeed be
the final year chaps, who have just polished
off the last long vacation of their lives.
Happy, I'm· told, are some chappies who
have covered the syllabus for the year to
come and are presently hounding the library
doing reference work. Sorry, I've seen, are
some lads who have indulged in so much of
the Shake, the Frug, the Watusi and other
such Schmatzy dances that keep on being
discovered every now and then, that they've
come down with Fibrositis and things
and noW have to sleep on mats on the floor.
Worried must have been some, who in
nervous moments pondering about the results,
offered the fuzz to Tirupathi, resulting now in
our having to gaze upon the dents and bumps
of a shiny nut here, and a Jewel Thief Cap
there, where we once used to gaze upon
terraced slopes of brilliantined mass of hair
ending in. disgusting 'kiss-curls' on the
forehead.
But no·t everybody has been having a rough
time. Take the lot of the Freshers for
example. No one ever had it so good. In
our days, we walked into the hostel and the
seniors welcomed us with the unmentionables
and menacing looks. Today the Ward7n
drops 11 laddu into the fresher's mouth, whde
one Asst. Warden sprinkles rose-water on his
block and another washes his travel-weary
foot and conaucts him to his room to be installed therein. Our welcomes had quite a few
variations to this theme, but then in a couple
of weeks, the camaraderie that existed between
the seniors and us, was to be seen to be believed.
Ragging, specially the sadistic, perverted type,
has its defects. But the mild, good-humoured
manner in which it is conducted here, did
nobody any harm and what's more, disciplined
the worst of us ~ Like, if in our days, we
.dared shout or boo at any function, the
seniors went out of their way to seek us out
.. and correct our notions on how to enjoy a dull
play. Nowadays the youngsters are yelling
for nautch-girls to be brought on stage, and
if a senior goes upto him and says so much
as, • shuddap ya mutt', or something like
that, then before he can say • Lakshmi darling,'
he is suspended, bundled off to the Warden's
for a .couple of weeks and ends up looking
after the kids.
While we are on the subject of holidays,
the Jetter bringing the results was a welcome
surprise. The personal, tnan~to·m!!n touch
of Prof. Dr. Varghese is much appreciated.
This, after aU, is th~ way to make friends
and influence people.
. .
Another .welcome change is the .id~a of
starting classes at 8 a.m. Whoever thought
that up had his heart in the right place.
Like Jea~ Kerr, we aU believe that:

This space

for 'lJooCllil2g .

cAM PAST I M·E-S
Dearer to me than the evening star,
A Packard car I
A Hershey bar,
Or a bride in her rich adorning;
Dearer than any of these by far,
Is to lie in bed ·in the morning.
The Institute building is coming along
nicely, and the colour-combination is topping.
Gajendra Circle, unfortunately, still presents
a miserable sight. Gloom like that of the
place would call for the pen of a master.
Gorky, I feel, is the right person to handle
this paragraph. Perhaps Dostoevsky would
do just as well. The place could do with
a new hand for the guy who has lost it and
without the barbed wire fence to keep it there.
An unhealthy trend, one notices these
days, is the clltting down of the large trees,
which once gave such a distinguished look
to our campus. Where writers of a gone.. by
era used to long for gazelles and Arab Steeds,
our young men long for large trees. Strange,
but that's how it is. I found a lot of fellows
talking about their beloved trees. They all
. feel like the hero in the average Russian
novel, who having strangled his bourgeois
papa, thrashed his ·wife, and fed his baby
to the fish at the local reservoir, returns home
and finds the Vodka bottle empty. I mean,
they all feel that they are being deprived of
the simple pleasures of life.
.
Durin~ the Convocation, I was stretching
my neck a bit, when I noticed the Institute
emblem, atop the projection-room go off.
Heck, I thought, what now! Suddenly the
words 'Fifth Convocation' came on in blue
light, with a red Mnge t After a moment
that went off too I By now, I was positively
biting my nails wondering what was going
to happen next. Plunk 1 Both the emblem
and the words came on together I So, I get
the photo. A couple of guys sitting aheaq of
us, were watching the same thing incredulously. One of them gave vent to his feelings
so admirably: 'Dey, parada: he said, • they
have cogged the Kareem-beedi ad I' After
the convocation, one brand~new M. Tech.
sobbed on my shoulder about the same thing.
Poor fellow! It seems he brought along his
papa and mama-san and the girl~next-door on
whom he had his crush now. to see him collect
his diploma, and they were sitting in the
bowl, looking at the Kareem~beedi thing and
guffawing like the devil. I believe, he said,
dirtying his handkerchief miserably, that '
they should exercise a little more restraint
for the Convocation. A solemn afi:air is so
much better, indeed.
And the less said about the stage-settings
for the Convocation the better. What was the
thing supposed to -represent anyway? Some
guys say that it is a lotus, and guys with more
vivid imaginations believe it to be a boat.
Whatever it was, it resembled rather closely,
a scenario from the average, run·of-the-mill,
Tamil movie, through which the nautch-girls
pop out, dressed in fashiom that died with
Queen Victoria, and do a lot of wild dances.
For such a scene, no doubt it was admirable,
but think of what the Kareem-beedi thing
on one side and the lotus-boat thing On the
other must have done to a guy trying to.
concentrate on the Saizanavavathu.
Lastly, one notices that there is definitely
an improvement on the facial expressions of
the electrical engineering students-especially
those at the fag-end of the course. Where
we once used to see guys with long faces,
looking as if they had just been passed
through the clothes-wringer, we see cheerful
laddies, tripping about on light steps, whistling.
snappy tunes. This phenomenon· puzzles
.many•. Anything the matter, folks ?-GoPE

7

Heartily Dactyly
That guy waS real smart. Only a nitwit
would spend a whole hour with him as I had
done. I n a last-ditch attempt to break his. .
shield of innocence (feigned, of course), I
tried this: • Hey, what do you do when you
get bored up. You know what 1 mean, when
you don't hog.' .
• I write poems for the Headshrinkers'
replied that stupid looking character. I
wasn't sure whether he hogged that much,
but he certainly cogged, if that myth about
H.S. was true. • Boy, got you hooked at last •
I thought. Then I poked him, 'You call
yourself a poet, eh?' 'You mean Edgar
Allen You-know-who '.
Darn I Th~t double crossing wise guy. I'd
be blow'd if I had placed an emphasis on
poet. • You 8no11y gaster.' I bellowed, • I
can write any day better than you. Cut the
crap and get loslt.'
Unwontedly, ~ was telling him the truth.
With one of these light ver$e~forms, anyone
can be a poet. The latest one is called the
double-dactyl. According to rules every poem
starts with a double-dactyl nonsense line
, Higgledy-piggledy' or • Jiggery-pokery , and
anything else YOll can think of. After that
comes a famous (or infamous) name-also
double dactyIic-:-fol.lowed by another line of
double dactyl and a line of four beats. It
begins all over again, ending like all jokes
with a punch line. . Usually there is a double
dactylic line of one word in the poem.
You >;:sn start with nonsense lik!! this,

Higgledy-piggledy
Gure/larau S. Sidhu
Called at 1.1. T. alld
Had this to say:
Doem't it strike you tltat
Nights of non-stop craming
Certainly may lead to
Cratzks itl Olll' day.
And turn to character-assassination,

H£ggledy-piggledy
Klmshr09 Kapadia
Ultl'a-mol'011ictzlly
Fell dOW1' tlte 'stairs
Afraid of altitude
He climbs up pogo mzd
Bamzister-plwbia
With him, is rate.
Higgledy-piggledy
PootSZil1iJoos Uno/wo
Short st.ory producer
Wrote, a1zd as suck,
Bored us to death with his·
Eerie c01&cOCI;Olls alld
Save for his idiot),
Didn't do much.
You might like to turn to a bit ,of history
Jiggery~pokery

;

SludClzts' of 1.1,7'.
Thought it was nice to have
Good swimmitlJ! pools
A Brobdignagia1t
Pool was completed but
Notere they passe,d out and'
Made themselv6s?ools.
After all this y?U can have a go at
Campastimes

Higgledy-piggledy
Camplistimes Editors
Publish atzy topic
Utzder tlte SUll
Articles drscribillg
Contra-Ubiquitous
Membe,'s of female seX
Are duly shunlled. *
You tan add insult to injuries (yours) with
the double dactyl. Try right noW I
(* •••• '? ? ? •.. 1 ? ••• •Ed.]

N.R.

