·,CAMP.ASTIM~S

(S'eptemb.er. 1968
Cricket

Sport/olio'

The Institute team Mt off to a. good start
this session. In the inter-collegIate league
Match, IlT defeated MIT with ease. Going
in to bat first, MIT lost all their wickets for
a paltry 34. Ramgopal, our opening
bowler, took four wickets for 14 runs. A
sound 27 by the late K. Sridhar gave lIT
'the winning to.tal of 42 for one wicket in
just 40 minutes.

The' Boat Club

IIT (148 for 4) drew the next match
verses Engineering (r86 for 8). The highlight of the match was an unbeaten II3 by
IITian V. Ashok.

and

lIT Madras
Ask Sanyal • How goes your rowing?'
and sit back and relax for a couple of hours.
But that is just half the story. .
There is at large among us an unholy
number of people who claim they freque?t
the Boat Club. These people come In
various sizes, shapes and intelligence-fr?m
Ashley to Vijay Reddy. This habit forming
sport (ask Dutta) was started by Thaluk~ar
of the first batch. though a larger portlon
of the momentum was given by Pritham
Kapoor. Pritham- a tall dark handsome
hundred and eighty pounder with the right
number of arms. legs etc. It was more the
respect that the club members had for his
immaculate sculling style that made him do
what he always wanted-form an IlT crew
and win the inter-collegiate. (Monopolised
by the Guindy Engineering College at that
time.)
This was very difficult because at that
time the club was an exclusive one, and
had very few stuuent-members. It :was also
the unwritten law that . the official club
crews were all palefaces. Well. they coul~n't
argu~ lon~ :with Pritham;. by t~~t time
Sidhartha lamed the club With BaJaj. Soon
enough other IITian members were introduced, In the following regatta IIT won the
President's shield and retained it for two
years.
It was then that Arun N ayyar joined the
dub along with Gopal Ramachandran and
many others, After a month the lane survivor of this strenuous exercise was Arun
Nayyar, and he was there to stay [or'a )~ng
time. He was one of the fewer lot whIch
.could combine power and grace in the water.
Dutta and Reddy were the next to join the
dub and soon 'the second lIT crew was
formed, but with a difference. It was a
seniors' crew with ,Ebby-stroke. Dutta-2,
ReddY"3 and Arun-Bow, a position needing
good skill a nd ~xperience. This crew reached

great heights and won the Challenge fOUl'S.
The Challenge pairs was won by Arun' and
Ebby, the Challenge sculls by Ebby, Junior
sculls by Arun,' and the maiden sculls by
Dutta. bringing home with us five trophies.
Dutta was next on the spotlight when
he broke the records on the maiden sculls.
The timing was 2.29.
The lIT fours was then nominated for
the A. R. A. E. and was sent to Colombo.
They lost because of a surprisingly large
number of reasons but the experience ga\ned
from the trip did a lot of goad for their
rowing career.
'
, The Madras-Colombo regatta r966 fe~tured
Dutta again and he won the fours event.
In the following Madras-Colombo x967 regatta, Madras won all the events; the important positions of the stroke and three
we~e filled by Ebbie and Dutta.
So much for the past. At present there
are sixteen IITians in the ,rowing !flub,
forming an appreciable half of th~ competitive class of oarsmen. There Will be an
inter-collegiate this November and Sanyal,
who is the most enthusiastic of the lot and
also the self-appointed publiciser of the
might of IIT, has already taken up his
job seriously.
There are few activities in the club other
than rowing, and Mr. Balaram finds it very
difficult keeping up with excuses for the
many times he misses his training. There
was once a crew with Me. Balaram, Ramkumar,
Chat and Ray who lost to a heavier crew of
the Boat club. It was no fault of theirs that
they had to be a crew.
,
The new IlT crew will be Dutta as
stroke, Sanyal as 3. Ebbie as 2 and Basu
and Ray. Thi;· is a very· promising creW
and is sure to keep our flag flying for quite.
some time.
-EBBY

V. Ashok

In the Jain College tourn~ment, !I1 ' ~'
has reached quarter~finals by ehmmatlng
Institute of Catering Technology and Law
College. llT' B' bowed out of the tournament when it faced Christia~.
The response at our nets hasn't been
encouraging so 'far. ·A good deal depends
on future response.

Football
The crowd at th~ football ground has,
as usual, fallen expo~e~tiall.y., .. ~ith the
'return of E?anyal,' after hiS ~nkle "inJury, and
Bhaskar the former Captam; we hope to
"
keep th; ball rolling.

The team has already pro,,~d i~s worth;
against christian, former. unIVerslty cham~
pions, llT won 2,-X, Q~lck moves by ,our
forwards and fine shootmg by Dhruv Pant
netted the first goal. _ IlT increased t,he
margin' when Banerjea dazed the goalee WIth
a fine tap after a bullet shot from centreforward Bhaskar rebounded off the post.
Towards close of play,"Christian managed to
'reduce the margin. It. was ~u~ to watch
, Shorty' Nair puzzle die Chnstlan defence
with fine dribbling, and alert' Rathnaswamy
.keep die goal.

Hockey
Our hockey team has fresh blood in its
defence line this Yf!:ar.· ,Ajit Puran, xis.
playing left back, is promising.
.

In its first I~ncounter (in the inter-collegiate)
the team drew with Christian. lIT to6li:
the lead when inside left Abrah~' rushed
up to the "goal line and flicked the .ba~l~.to
centre forward Ramu·, who slammed It m:.
Later, Christian'scored the equaliser.
With many more matches. ahead, this. is
one team undergoing hot sessions of pra~tlce
every eve!lirig.·

STOP PRESS

K. S. Loganathan has been
elected General Secretary of
the Institute Gymkhana
J.E.T. (Ebbie) Sargunar, ace sculler

