CAMPASTlMES

Caricatures

C.HANAKYA BALARAM
Some' twentywodd years ago there was a small population-explosion in a
remote 'Village in Andhra and it was called Chanakya. Now, one can't go around
bunging names like that at unsuspecting kiddos and expect them to grow up into
normal rational citizens. Let's get that much straight, right away.

One of the first things that strike you when
you meet Channy is his nose. As a matter of
fact, after his ah~so-lhitish manners, it is his
proudest possession. His opening gambit on
b~ing introduced to· pretty young things, is
invariably,,' Ah ! I've a Roman nose, don't
you think? " and as she is wondering whether
Sophia kren, Gina Lollobrigida or Marcello
Mastdoanni (being the only Romans she has
seen) have noses quite like the exhibit A, he
adds, • I've often been told I look rather distinguished with it " which makes her wonder
how he could possibly look human, let alone
distinguished, without a nose (Romall or
native) on his map.
But it is as a Scholar that Channy really dis~
tinguished himself! It a\1 started with a
Fuels, Furnaces a1zd Refractories paper, couple
of years ago.
The question, pure and
simple, was, 'Write an Essay on Low Temperai:~re Garbonisation '. The answer-perhaps
not quite as pure, but certainly simpler, was,
• The temperature used in low temperature
carbonisation is pretty.low, the gaseous pro~
ducts got are OK, and the coke left behind i~
so-so'·.' He got an ' A ' for brevity.
A few innocclft 'uns here believe Channy to
be the' embodiment of brotherly love. They
had seen him at a local cinema with a bevy
of girls and not: knowing the facts of life, believed him to be entertaining his sisters I To
this day, when their sisters begin to creep on
their nerves, they grit their teeth, think of
Channy and keep quiet.
. If Valenkar, who has just passed out.
writes My most unforgettable character' for
the R.D., I'll bet my last shirt that it's
Channy he's going to write about. This
Valenkar chap was walking along the foot-path
one evening, a few years ago, and Channy
came charging down on his mQbike (one look
at him then, and e'Ven Lloyd's wouldn't have
handled his insurance), and he gets this
funny ·idea that foot-paths were made for
motor-cyclists to bank properly. He ran
Valcpkar down a few momen.ts .later, lost his
balance and went for a toss. Picking up
himself and his mobike, he waited for the
pUlion-rider to limp up and tell him that he
had just knocked down a guy.
This vacation Channy received a letter, It
was in the vernacular, he tells me. Tn-meel,
he surmised. He took it to his mom and
asked her to translate. Mama-san read the
first few lines and looked up at her son and
it seemed to our man Channy that she was
seeing him in a' new light. It seems that
through the letter, a gentleman from Coimba·
tore, who had seen Channyat Adyar had proposed Channy's marriage to his daughter 1
·There . was the usual Vadama Gothram,
Bharadwaja girl .•.• horoscope •.. , and an
offer to shunt him off to the States for higher
studies .. , 'Arranged marriage?'. stormed
Channy, 'Why mow-thaw, it's preposterous,
you' know I We're in the twentieth century,
really t t '
. Another interesting event ~f his life came
up in the HSB, couple of years ago.· The lecturer (are female lecturers called lecturers, I
wond,er) was late by ten mi~utes and .e'V.en a
fresher will tell you that that's the lUUlt of
.1a~eness ,allowed for the staff. So Channy
appoints himself to a. one-man commission to
enquire into hel," whereabouts and pops over
tQ. he.r room: ..

Now it came to pass that she shared this
office room with another she-lecturer. Spotting this latter person within the room,
Chann), began to get his posture right-a five
degree bow from the waist, a. precise 7 degree
lowering of the head and a fifteen degree
twist of the head to the left to give the full
impact of the Roman profile. Just right,
decided he, mentally checking the steps once
more. Now, he realized, was the time to turn
on the charm.' • Excuse me maam,' he said.
It chanced now that along the same corridor came the cheerful figure of Anil Thadani.
One realizes that Channy, who has worked
himself into the above posture, rather prominently juts out his rear end, just inviting to
be kicked. Thad did just that. He stepped
up and kick:d.

I

9
Channy got his mob ike when he was doing
the third year, and since 'then he has maintained a steady 85% attendance-at the local
magistrate's court for speeding. I'm told that
this, plus his class attendance, is always equal
to 100%.
For some reason he isn't very fond of cops.
Stories hav~ it that he chased one round and
round the Round Thana and finally knocked
him down "'on their third round. Oh yes,
Channy was on his mob ike. Another cop,
who had signalled him to stop to hand over a
ticket, had the mobike driven in between his
leg5.
Channy, b~ing born in Hyderabad, Andb.ra
Pradesh, speaks very fluent Telugu-as fluent
as, say the Telugu spoken in Switzerland.
He claims he is a settled Bangalorian and his
behaviour would have won him rounds and
rounds of applause, had he been born in the
days of the Raj.
B)' now you must be wondering when I'm
coming down to his now famous stooge acts
(continuous performance on Sundays and the
days he cuts class wholesale) ChanllY is con-'
sidered as the Father of the modern Stooge
Act. (In Villages. I am told, his pictures are
hung in between those of Gandhi and
Kennedy). Take any stooge act and the cast
is always CHANAKYA BALARAM and the
other stooges. These stooge acts generally
begin around I p.m. when he gets up from
wherever he is and announces, ~ Blue Dia~
mond, thanks you for being present today',
dumps curry on his neighbour's head, does
a few steps of hoote-Channy-hoote, imitates
Doris Day. kicks somebody passing by .••
and the show is on. .
-1 still remember the day he, started the
world of Stooge Acts. It was ill the glorious
1964. that gone~by era when stooges were
stooges and not the disgrace to the name of
stooging that you see masquerading about
these days.
The scene was an' exam.· haU, where our
class was doing a physics periodical. Not
the whole class really, for Channy was a~
his desk waiting for inspiration. After a
few moments he got a brainwave! He
pulled up the answerwbook and drew a neat
margin. Then he drew a' life-like' sketch oE
the supervising lecturer's mug. Further
brainwaves had come in by now and so
below the sketch he added a four letter word
(Actually a five letter word if YOl,l. write. th.e
plural for emphasis).
Now it so happened that the lecturer, who
had been fascinated by the beak-nosed one
earlier in the hour, was studying its peculiarities from close-quarters. He;' didn~t quite
fancy what was going 'on in the answerwbook.
So he uppity-ups himself to the dais and
screams 'Mr. Balaram I . You. have given
me one--(here he used the same word to
which Channy had taken out a copyright a
few moments earlier). but. 1*11 give you two
big--(same word, plural)'.
This is atrocious, thought Channy standing
up. Why, he's not even properly introduced
to me I 'Really Sir I' .he said and, a few
moments later. the world had her first stooge

act!

The lecturer, who was impressed with the
young fellow, who reminded her 'Very strongly
·of the rubber-men of the village circuses, and
with the way he had delivered the 'Excuse
me, maam I' was surprised to see him suddenly behaving like a fresher at the Bolshoi prac~
tising a new and difficult" step.' Now, one
can't go. around doing that sort 6f thing and
then carryon' the tete~a-tete on the same for:'
short and tQ
mal lines. So the interview
the point.
. Stepping out of the room, Channy caught
Thad by his neck-or thereabouts-shook him
up. ana asked him,.' What is the meaning
of a big grown up brute like you, frightening that poor little .girllike that, huh? '

was

Channy was the Secretary to the Publications
Committee last year t and believe'me, he did
a mighty fine job there. What with the
number of times he had cHarged upto: the
press and the amount of bull-work he-did; 'he
he has run dOWll, the resale 'Value of his
a-stroke Arab steed, but has. brought up the
prestige and popularity 'of this rag' mighty
high.
.
I could perhaps go' on about his good
qualities and a1\ that but.~hen as Mark 'Twain
(if I remember right:) put it-tliere is nothing
quite as frustrating as the annoyance of a
good example.
This then is' the unexpurgated. unabddg"ed
and complete story of the life and .times 'of
Chanakya Bitlaram. - Of course, the' spicier
stories of his colourful' life have been .left
out 'to ;save 'him the· embarrassment... In' te
you. may say die article is a' bit biased: ,but"
then I'm ~fter all, a.. friend. of his.
GOPE.

