10

CAMPASTIMES

Personalities

[September. 1968

ELECTIONS

IN
BLUNDERLAND:

AND
THROUGH

THE
GLASS

HOUSE

Dr.. Chandrasekbara Swamy I
If in the fourth hour on Saturday-an hour
lightened by the aura of the imminent weekend, when thoughts are far away from the
subject at hand-you hear a forceful tenor
voice expounding the influence of the nonlinearity of the differential equations of
motion on. the differences between solid and
fluid mechanics, you would naturally be a
little surprised. At the second incredulous glance you notice the class-as witless a
set of unimaginative dolts as any IITian
bunch-inexplicabl.y spellbnund by this flood .
of roatltematical sleight-o'~hand: head!l nod
sagely, eyes light up with comprehension and
pens scratch across paper with furious enthusiasm. Your surprise does a couple of back
somersaults and passes like a quick change
artist tbrough mounting stages of bewilderm.ent, puzzlement, wonder and astonishment
to land up in unbounded amazement. And
then you catch a glimpse of a burly figure. a
flash of heavy-rimmed spectacles, and your
feelings subside slowly as realization dawns:
it's Dr. Swamy at the old stand.
Dr. N. V. Chandrasekhara Swamy is conspi~
cuous for more reasons than one. His
decisive, energetic mo'Vements, his earnest
and faintly didactive conversational style, his
confident rejection of convention in favour of
logic, make him. a marked man, Add to this
a voracious appetite for information of every
kind, a vast fund of knowledge gained by
wide reading and a Wodehousian sense of
humour-warm and fun~loving rather than
ironic, dry or cynical-and you have a fair
picture of the man.
All this strenuous admi.rability naturally has
its obverse tlide. He is a dommating personality, an exacting examiner and a hard taskmaster. "You could bet your bottom dollar,
and a couple of borrowed dimes as well, that
if you don't do your work, he'Ulet you have
it in the neck. But I'm just waiting for the
day when he is back" here where he belongs,
hyptonising his classes and generally making
his presence felt in his determined bracing
fashjon~

-So

PARAMESllWARAN.

[* Dr. Swmny is now in Germany.-Ed.]

(colltd. fro,,, p. I I col. 3)
I thought you 'DJanted to get soaked.'
'Thafs all right for a gag. 1 didn't mean
C

it serious.'
• Thank your stars it didn't pour.'
t Oh, yeah.'
.
Pause.
C How about the movie, Dad i' '
A look' of intense disapproval.
• Easy,. Dad. I was just kidding. You
sticking round tonight ·or hoofing it back ? '
(And so the conversation meanders on into
other channels.)

AAJOO.

, Knock, Knock..'
, Who is there? J
• Barnacle BilI the Sailor'.
etc.
Just about to complete a complicated slide
rule calculation in one setting. One of the
following vatiations : 1. tap, tap.
2. knock, knock.
3. knock, knock, & 'Excuse me please.'
4. knock, knock & ' One Sec, I say.'
'5. BA1'lG RATTLE & • I SAY, YAR'
(thinks he's played marbles with me, probably.)
I curse inwardly,
't'" ! Ai % 11',
Have to repeat the setting. I open the door
anyway-may as well face the fact that I must
undergo mutual coexi~tenc~ with these sp~ci-·
mens for another year In thlS hostel. Anythmg
form" oue to eight groups hanging around
outside with facial expressions ranging from
apologetic to intimidating depending on
number. size, familiarity and which year they
think 1 am in.
• Yeah?' from me by way of formality.
The average rejoinder is something like,
, Hope I'm not disturbing you. I am
standing for such-and-such sec. How about
voting for me ?' (Why the darned sees
cannot stand for them'!elv;es, I don't kno,...,
Too much emphasis on sex anyway if you
ask me. Personally I prefer the sines and
cosines-no awkward discontinuties, just
smooth curves throughout. But pardon the
digression). To get back, it may be a. ' Can
I be sure of your vote?' or worse sull my
marbles pal with 'I'will be counting on your
support.' (1 doubt whether there'll be much
counting where he's concerned). Another
type whips out a black book-I've got a little
list-and makes an entry against my room
number. I get the feeling that if my reply is
unfavourable he will put a sign over my door
a~ ~el1 as to make sure that the angel of death
doesn't pass me by.
. Whatever it is I show my teeth and mumble
O.K. to get :rid of him. I've learned too late
that this has the opposite effect. He gets
doubts, unfortunately valid, and strategically
inserts his foot in the door way as I'm trying
to close it. 'You know my name, eh?'
and 1 confidently laugh an • OH yeah, of
course, yar,' though I have never seen the
blighter'S mug before and his providence
would be in question if he called me a liar.
But his foot has not budged and he enlightens or rather enburd.ens me with it
nevertheless.
C I am K. V. S. Ramachandra Gopishanker
Srinivasarao.' As if I could not have guessed.
Sometimes this comes right at tbe beginning,
that is when he also admits to being a total
stranger. In this case he is usually courteous
and does not hang around too long. However the average specimen of God-cum~IlT's
creation can imagine nothing more degrading
than being polite. This smart fellow drops
bombshells like 'I'm in your wing', 'I was
in your articles in CantpasUmes: Of course,

the real fun is when he is in my class bus
that is a special case we shall overlook.
Personally I feel jt is an affront to my dignity
~o Suggest that "fUy vote be based on such
lrr~leven"t .matters. (1 know that later he is
&Qln?, to ,lDsult me further with something
hke Don t forget yar, tomorrow's the voting J
and hang around the ballot box as well')
I don't expect him to make an electio~
speech-G~d for~~d t~e a~temp~ eVen. Lack
of talent In ~ dIrectton IS universally
excusab!e even In famous politicians or their
s~cretanes. In the present case it may be to
hIS a~van~age to assume that an unknown
€J.':1an.t1ty lIke me who pretends to be rational
wtll judge him on what he says and how he
~ehaves: If he ~oes not look out my vote
may ultImately gIve the benefit of the douht
to the guy Who never e'Ven asked me.
To return. to the episode, my tormentor
has ~eanwhl1e gradually withdrawn his foot
and IS preparing a harmonious departure for
the .next sucker's l·oom. The conversation
contmues.
• Blah. blah blah '.
• Blah blah blah' •
• Blah. blah blah •.
, Blah blah blah'.

'Of course '.
'Oh ya, sure '.
• Yeah' •
'Yeah'.

By this time! have shut and bolted my
door. He blahs sotpe more on the other side
before leaving me i~ peace with my slide rule.
Almost .done it t~is t!me. I don't try the
calculatIon the thu:d time, but switch off the
light and lie down, mumbling C How much
good wood would a good woodchuck chuck
if a good woodchuck could chuck good
wood? '

If my gentle reader thus far has been
either amused or offended, I am terribly
sorry. I am not writing to entertain or to
.. provoke. but purely for purposes of moralising. Don't get me wrong. I am not
complaining about anybody wasting my
time. Far be it from me to grudge those
two minutes of diversion.
To start with let me classify our miserable
hostel elections among the so-called· free
elections held on ivariou$ scales and for
various purposes all over the world, 1 then
go on to observe that the whole thing is
based on certain vaguely defined prinCiples
of democracy. For instance; a candidate
should have the freedom to influence his
vo~ers. bu~ to what;f exteI;1t? The equality
prInciple suggests an equal measure. whiCh
theoretical possibility leaves the voter saying
inny minny etc. So one forgets that all men
are equal in principle and tries to decide which
candidate is more unequal.
Now a candidate can Use his freedom in all
. sorts of ways and play havoc with a poor
voter's freedom of choice without the latter
knowing it even, The means employed may
be fair or foul. The interests involved may
be selfish, sectarian or purely humanitarian.
Voting for a class rep. for instance depends
heavily on which branch he is in. One's
political freedom may be completely in the

