September 1968)

CAMPASTIMES

II

-------------------------------------,---------hands of one's boss (including the wife
variety) or a labour union leader. But the
- right to campaign cannot be interfered with,
except where it breaks rules concerning
defacing of walls or the use of public funds.
Everyone knows there is use of public funds.
Everyone knows that there is a big difference
between the righteousness of the average COllscience and that as defined by a set of rules.
This leaves a lot of leeway for the public to
be misled even on the right side of the law.
Many a candidate would sacrifice some of his
integrity to achieve success and fame. We
are so used to overlooking this that an honest
person would stand a good chance of being
termed a masochist. All of which is a longwinded way of saying that human nature is
but imperfect. At this stage let me state that
I am staying clear of any philosophical discussion concerning the existence, validity, or
nature of the concepts of right and wrong, or
good and evil.
Democracy maintains that when there is a
public office to be filled. the people can be
trusted to choose the most suitable candidate.
No matter if what poses for the well of the
majority is really man, hypnotism or the result
of a bribe. In fact the postulate breaks down
in this content. How, meanwhile is it toassert that there really is a 'best' man for
every job, for after all there are no trials, and
who is to judge? The major reason for the
failure of democracy is lack of intelligence on
the part of the voting crowd. By failure of
democracy I mean those occasions when we
end up with a crook, charlatan or downright
moron either in parliament or in the cooperative stores, by due process of election.
Literacy alone does not suffice though more
than that we may not ask_
Having said so much against democracy ,1
must admit in all fairness that I have not
evolved a better system. All the same 1 am
sure I am in good company. So let us see
what merits it has. Now if man were a
perfectly sodal animal he would live happily
in the perfect communist state, not as envisaged by Karl Mar.x but as practised by
the ants and the bees. Fortunately or otherwise we labour under a concept. called
free will which gives rise to majorities
and minorities in all matters of want
and opinion. The strength of democracy lies in its tolerance of minorities. Of
course lone individuals cannot survive in
any sort of social set-up. Even the mini.-minorities will be disseminated against until
and unless they grow enough. But
democracy does permit change in the sense
of a determined minority canvassing opinion
till it overtakes a majority. So a balance is
possible granting the drawbacks mentioned
earlier_ The basic underlying idea in all
this is our social nature. There are always
groups and they exist only because there is
conformity to some extent.

""

""

.*

So much for democracy and I will come
to the point about us being students and
all that. We are faced with a maze of
systems, political, educational, conventionat
etc. The democracy bit was by way of
example. It was prompted by hostel elections
and I don't claim it to be authoritative Qr
exhaustive (if exhausting, my apologies.)
Now as students out attitudes and reactions
to systems are subject to much greater
latitude than those of our elders. Those
who keep up with the news will know mOre
than 1 do about the systems which students
in many parts of the world are rebelling
against.
What I want to point out is that we are
best able to examine most systems criticl!lly
and 'impartially. We are young. Our minds
are not cluttered up with archaic concepts
which hinder clear thinking. It is easier for
us to investigate the new ideas we encounter.
And in a different strain, though we may
not use it, we have a greater capacity for
honesty, simply because we have less roots
and fixed obligations. It is easier up for US
to caU a crook a crook, than for a settled
person to dQ the same when he is vulnerable
to subtle pressures and other forms of

retaliation. But we carl have the guts needed
for veracity only if we can stay out of the
social rut where we scrounge our jobs by
contacts through rich or influential relatives
and continue the process in our time. There
are various other activities which characterise
the rut. 1 am concerning myself with
students. meaning those who have young
minds and no vested interests.
If we find a system lacking we may do
nothing about it. This means passing the
buck to the next generation which may take
it out on us if things get too bad. If we
do wish to alter it, a little courage and a
lot of leadership of the proper type would
be required_ Some systems might change'
easy whereas others call for unpopular action,
sometimes violence. But things can go
wrong, with an old rotten set-up being
destroyed all right, but being replaced by
chaos; There is no point unless a better
system can be installed and that is why good
leadership is imperative, especially when
violence is involved, for it is very easy to
behave like stampeding cattle when we get
collectively emotioned. If we do anything
it must be with dedication and a realisation
of what the aims are. If anyone suffers, the
end must more than justify the means. As
long as ~ve are students, we are the ones
whose future is most important. We cannot
depend on old fogies to take care of it
for us.
I am not suggesting anything specific like
taking over a university, peacefully or otherwise. My statements here are general and
pertain only to attitude. I cannot speak
from experience or, commOn sense about
what to do or how, why and when. That
is for us as students to decide if necessary.
The individual as I mentioned earlier, is
not recognised in a social world. I hope
we never have to refrain from needed action
either for lack of leadership or for not realising our strength.
Noting on the one hand our tremendous
potential, it is at the same time tragic to
observe in my limited sphere a curious indif·
ference and lack of purpose in life other than
the immediate. May be it's the hallmark of
a type of student we get in I.I.T. I'm the
first one to plead guilty but the accusation
remains and I hope it is not ~ommon to all
students. It hits us particularly hard. We,
the so-called cream of the Indian University,
are insensitive to the needs of the world
around us. Our noblest aspirations rarely involve more than our periodical and exam.
grades until Qne reaches the final year where
it is all one mad helter~skelter, applying to
Universities abroad. • No bloody jobs for us
engineers in this country', • No prospects I
say', 'Must get out of here at any cost,' • I
am doing the nation a favour by not adding to
the unempl~yed.' Perhaps in return for the
favour of an education which cost the Government astronomical sums of money. May be
the system we should discard is internal. Or
may be we could do something about the nojob state of affairs.

If you have read thus far and feel that it all
sounds rather hitter, think over it again. Do
some moralising of your own and do as conscience and courage dictate. Unless of course
you believe that God's in his heaven and all is
right with the world.

*

*

*

If that has puzzled you, tty mumbling the
answer:If a good woodchuck could chuck
good wood,
the good wood that a good woodchuck
would chuck,
the good wood that a good
woodchuck could chuck. if the good
woodchuck,
that could chuck good wood would.
chuck good wood as a good woodchuck,
should chuck good wood.
-TEE SQUARE.

'HI DAD'
, Howdy, son?'
, I need some dough!
What I What on earth for? '
• The Convocation. The OAT's gotta be
rigged up a decent bit.'
• Oh, I thought it was for another of your
gay jaunts. How much do you need? •
• The usual lump plus a chunk for some
lights and frameworks around the place.
y ~u think you ca~ get them to pass that? '
Hmmmm •••
, By the way, Dad, how does the whole show
go? 1 witnessed a coupla them, awright, but
I've never bin on top before.'
, l't ain't anything unusual. The head of
the department puts in a word for this guy
who's gonna swipe the degree, askin' me to
give the, green signal. I tell 'em to go ahead
and let!,this guy have what he's been sIoggin'
five years for. You give him the document
and tell him to be a good boy.'
• Each one of them? '
• You take them in groups actually.'
• Couldn't I tell 'em all at one go? After
all, it ain't gonna make any' diff to their
behaviour.'
'No go, son.'
• Quite an ordeal, eh, Dad-? >
. 'Remember I've bin thIu' this grill umpteen
urnes.'
And Dad .• .'
• Whatho?'
• This Guard of Honour biz •• .'
• What about it ? '
, How about giving it a miss ? '
• I'd like to ••• .'
, Then' what's stopping us? Let's skip it.'
I Bul: tl1e old major .. .'
, Yeah .• :
• It would break his heart.'
• Let it.'
, Oh no, that would never do. You must
bear these, things, son. You wouldn't want
him sobb;ng on your shoulder, would you '1 ,
• Oltay, ,Dad. You win.'
, He wins, you mean.'
, Everything going smooth r '
'Yeah, Pop.'
'Therain •• .'
• The umbrellas are stacked up at the
back.'
, That isn't going to keep Vikram from getting soaked.'
• Better than nothing, though:
'Pause.
• Dad. didn't you folks think of this when
you built the OAT '/'
, I guess we pulled wool over our own
eyes; the notion was mighty jazzy and we
didn't want a teeny~weeny consideration like
that put us off. After all, every new idea
'
runs into a hitch or two.'
'Why don't you let me go ahead and build
a closed auditorium l'
• Dough l? !'
, We could wheedle it out of the crowd>
, If they,had it.'
• I thought the Germans were pumping in
huge sums.'
, Not for auditoriums, son.'
• I hope we get soaked today; 'mebbe
that'l1 loosen your fingers.'
• Mebbe.'
• Oh Dad. I darned near forgot. Okay with
you if I give the kids a day off ? '
'Might 'as well. It's been done too many
times to stop now.'
.
I

I

I

• You look cheesed up, son.'
• Who wouldn't, with this set of mugs to
deal with.'
, Come, Come. I've stood 'Worse crOWds>
'How do you manage it Dad ?'
, You get ~.sed to it, you know.'
• Tell a guy to get a move on and he crawls
around as if he were a snail. Can't these
blokes take a hint? They act like they want
me to get pneumonia and choke. I had a
good ptind to, tell them to grab sumthin' and
hoof It.'

(ccmtd.

011

p.

10

col.

1)

