12

CAMPASTI-MES

[September., 1968

THE CONFORMING NON· ;CONFORMISTS
How successful can the lie-detector be
in providing indiscriminating evidence
. a~d in clearing innocent people?
Some psychologists prefer the term
'Polygraph' for C Lie-detector' because it
looks as though 'Lie-detector' is a simple
device in detecting lies like a thermometer
indicating the temperature, of an individual.
But it is not so. Even the physician does
not have a foolproof gadget to diagnose a
disease. On the contrary he notes combinations ' such as body temperature, blood
count and location of pain and on the basis
of these \.makes a diagnosis. Similarly a
psychologist studies the graphic record of
breathing, blood pressure and electrical
resistance of the. skin obtained while questioning the suspect and then concludes whether
the record indicates guilt or innocence.
.' The 'first practical consideration is how
the suspect is introduced to the polygraph.
It is desirable to have him take the examination voluntarily. If he does so under
<?ompulsion this is apt to introduce other
emotions which make interpretation more
Under normal
circumstances
difficult.
almost everyone goes through with the
examination rather than arouse suspicion by
refusing. In one sample of noo criminal
suspects brough.t to the Chicago police crime~
detection laboratory only four actually- refused
t9 take th.e polygraph test. Three of these
fdu'r' "later -were electrocuted for murder.
With this brief introduction let me answer
your question.
It is sometimes claimed that an innocent
.b ut excitable suspect would show a lot of
tension and irregularity in the record and
thus would appear to be guilty. But his
reaction should be studied for both critical
and control questions. It is obser\1ed that
there would be no perceptible difference
between the two. Another point is that
tension caused by being examined is apt
to decrease as the examination progresses.
The innocent suspect will show less distur~
bance toward& the end of the record
whereas the guilty party is under pressure
throughout ;lnd does not show this gradual
.adaptation.
Sometimes an intelligent. criminal may try
to beat the test by keeping calm on crucial
,questions and deliberately producing irregularities on control questions. That is one
reason for putting a lot of gadgers on him.
If·he tries to 'control them a 11, he is apt to slip
,up somewhere.
One authority on the basis of twelve years'
experience in two laboratories states that the '
accuracy of crime detection through polygraph
is about 70 per cent. A.bout:2.o per cent of
the cases are equi.vocal and about IO per cent
'inyolved actual error. Therefore the above
is a fairly conservative estimate as to the
overall eff~ctiveness of the method.
•C

(Questions may be addressed to PSHCHOFOLI9, Catnpastimes-:-Ed).
.

It could have happened only at Tapti.
Back in '63, Prof. Sankaran was the first
Warden . of . Tapti to be dismayed by chaps
popping into the . dining hall in ~verything
from short shorts to Ja~y Lungis. Having
spent some time at the Purdue Universi~y, h~
didn' t quite fancy that sort of thing. If he
cotil.d have had his way, we would be wearing
Tuxedos for dinner everynight.
New wardens assigned to hostels, have
this bug for proper-dress, biting them with
unfailing regularity. Many moons have come
and gone since U nca Sanka learnt his lesson
that you just can't make an IlTian dress
against his will. Why, there are chappies
. here who go collect theit Ph.D's in bathroom
slippers-keep your eyes peeled' at the next
convocation I Dr. Kuriakose now holds the
office of the Warden at Tapti.
The bug let him have it too I
He told a meeting of the hostel committee
that he would like to see guys coming to the
dining hall in proper dress. He gave the
impression that the \Vordsworths of this world
may long for rainbows, but as far as he was
concerned there was nothing like chaps sitting
to dinner, dressed in full-sleeved shirts, ties,
shoes and socks. Even the most careless dresser
notes that he inadvertently left out trousers! '
Now, if you ask me, that's a pretty nasty thing
to leave out. I mean, it's OK for Terry Thomas
to run' around in -full-sleeved shirts, tie, shoes
and socks' in movies, but it would be .totally
inadequate a dress even for our . M~dras
weather. What's .more Terry Thomas gets
paid for what he's doing!
.

The Tnpti Beat Group

Photps: Vijay

But we couldn't go aroun~ disappo~nti~g
our warden just like that. LIke chapples ill
the old movies used to say, " Sporting" is our
middle name!' Equally impossible was the
prospect of appearing in public i~ shi~ts,
ties, shoes and socks only. Lookmg like
morons is one thing, but you never know
when or where you'll come dOWh with a nasty
.
cold, what?
Then we got the idea of the Lungis. . Once
we got it, w.e dec~de~ t? .do to i~ what fa.thers
do with children crymg In. mOVie haUs-:carry
it out at once l Posters Were put up ill the
hostel asking lungi-Iess to beg, borrow qi ~teal
a Jazzy lungi'from somewhere. A portralt of
a chap pie dressed in a white shirt, with a .tie
. that would have got John Barrymore lOVIng
looks from females of his era, a JazZy lungi,
socks and shoes looked down on fellows passing the notice-board.
The second year students who .were
• freshers ' as far as the hostel was concerned,
were asked to understudy the waiters and

servt:rs. They were fitted with hats. that
Hedda Hopper would hi\ve loo'ked, ~skance at.
,To keep the whC?le thing democratic, they
Were also asked to turn up in' Iurigis and
.things.
.
.
.
.. You .shoul~ seen the mob on the :I3th
evening! Man, by 1;eading' this rag you get only
the reaction, for ~he action y,ou 01:lghi to have
been there. Mosr- chappies l~ked Hke' Tutti~

R . ,to L . Dr. KuriaJtose, Mr. Subramanian, . '
.

Mr. H. S. Bathla

' _

/IT GYMkHANA
/?~I(: /D.2..·;P.

.:' ,.' _

Ai~(iL{~'~ ,rJ1re~
Hostel .flltlJ/; aJ'Tije.

SI:l"fYI'frJ'i~9 PIJ~/- •.
-."

.,

'

fruity ice-creams, and others. like io~al . hi'p.
pies. Those poor chaps who lpoK like
morons in any dress, .looked ,like: .m.oron~. .. It
. should now , be said that Dr. Kuriakq!\~ had
been convinced that he shoJlId tool in in, the
same, dress hims.elf. The whole thing may
have shaken his b~lief that IITians;are Te~h~
nology's lilst word, but he agJ;eed to hv.~our
us-and it was really jolly decent· of him· too.
1- me'an, how _many wariiens _would have
agreed to display themselves in public in that
dress, just to please the students? . It shows
that old 'boy Dr; Kuriokose has the right stuff
in him-the old 'One for aU and all for one , spirit I
Everybody was in the' today J mood.
Like they say in Playboy, the tables wers
reserved, but the patrons weren't. The
dinner was a topping success. Roy was heard
tell, 'whatees the theengees, this is ·the best
grub I've had in the Institute' and Roy
should know what he's talking about-at least
as far as grub is concerned.
Everything went off just fine-no .parents
dropping in for shrprise visits and .thm~5. I
mean, any unwary papa-san commg tn the
midst of such revelry would, no doubt, have
imagined himself to be in the midst of a Baby~
Ionian orgy of the worst kind-the sort that
got old boy Balthazaar talked about.
The usual entertainments followed the
dinner. Someon~ exercising his wrists at the
drums, someone else letting off steam into a
saxophone, and a third trying' to , retread the \
tonsils-and .together sounding like the- mating
call of a rather hoarse bull-rhinoceros. ,The
various secretaries, freshers and Balaram ,,,ere
introduced to the audience ; and Roy & Co.
sang ' ·Raghupath'i Ragbava Rajaram, sub .ko
ic~-cream de Bhagwa~.'
.
' .
This is a crazy, mixed·up . world. Everything gets'so monotonous in so; short a time
and yet . many of us- just carry. on with .t he
te<tius,-boring things of life because ,we ' woul~
rather do something that is known and done
rather than take that trouble of innovating.
In such a world, the Tapti Lungi dinner is a
new hope.
: Rah,.Taptians I
' -Camp(l$titnes.

.#

Edited by Venkatesh Mannar, Published by Prof. S. Sl!.mpatn and Printed by C. E. Koshy at the Diocesan P~esll for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras

