- 2 -

We nt'.- notn the first editors to a'Openl thus. Many ot ou'" predeoet;1t1nre bave done 110,
eome in desperation, but they bave all been rebutfed categorically. We don't expeot t~ do
any brtter and eo we have enlarged the purview ot OAMPAS'L"IM&S to include non-bumane too.
Hav~n~ come to the etage when we can no longer rely en humans tor the eube1etenoe of
OAMPASTIMIS, we have eought assistanoe tor the ~1rst time trnm our oamnus tauna, tlora
and even the inanimates. lOur last i8SU~, preluded this chapter by printlne a s gnit1cant
letter trom the Oajendra cirole elephants. !his time there'e 80mething more and as we
popularise the idea of OAMPASTIM!S among our plant and animal fr!ends and even the stoDea
o
0
D
and ponds, we hope to receiv~ valuable compositions from them. Eventually OAMPASTIMBS
may turn out to be an "inhuman" magazine especially if our non-human oontributors sb09' more
enthusiasm and less indiFference than our human ~es. They are indeed shaping to do 80.
Another enigma is the total non-repr'3Bentation of our fairer sex on the pages ot
CAMPASTlMES. Generally they are expected to have the delicacy and the finesse that goes
into good writing and literary composition ia believed to ~e a more facile art to them.
Des'Oite this and disappointingly enough, the girls have let CAMPASTI'~ down. rhey hav~
o
()
0
aimply not cared for it.
o
This issu&', barrilli! the acknowledged contributions, is the work ot about three orutour
people. We have published in it three interviews recorded in ~he past two months. We wish
to thank Dr. R. Srinivasan for informing us in advance and arranging our interviews with the
extramural speakers. We naturally are very grateful to him tor creating an opportunity
for us to meet some of the leading intellectuals of our time.
This is the last issue for this year and with this the present editorial team w~ll
make way for the next one. We have not made any radical changes this year; however we
have tried to exorcise an undesirable ~haracteristic which has tagged CAMPASTIMES for the
past few years. Several of the previous editors an8 contributors bad assumed that w1eldi~
the penl.eant writing in a 'smart' and uppity style, quite in contrast to their natural
diction. This gave rise to a lot of 'pseudo' material appearing in CAMJ'ASTlMES. This year
w~ have deliberately tried to avoid Qud discourape this kind of writing though we may not
have been wholly successful in thiso
Before ~e sign off, we would suggest that the SAC or whoever is the appointing
body select the next Editors as soon as possible so that they can get to wor~ at once.
Our late appOintment, a month before the odd semester exam, stopped us from bring~ng out
~?re issues.
For all its attendant difficulties and extreme academic pressures which bad
to be endured, we ~e relieved to say that we found our job mos' enjoyable.

~.*.~ -HA/~r
After that show of intellectualism from the GC eleph~nts ~n the last issue ot
Campastimes. I have begun to tRke interest in the inanimate as well. It was surprising
to note that those two gentlemen, so scathingly referred to as nincompoops by Mumbo and
c1umbo, have disappeared from the circle. One had almost taken them for granted. I think
W~ should raise a hue and cry about this disappearance of such monumental wor~R ot art
even as the press barons did about the Ripon buildings recently. I tinally tracadout
N 1ncompoop 'One to the bit of ground in between t,locks at the Civil ~nglneerlng department.
,-me hand rai~ed permanently as if he was blessing all who pass by, the other sporting an
I>utdated gold watch on the wrist, he looked a Borry sight in thoseclothes which reminded
@e of my grandfather. He has sustained a severe two-inch fracture above his left ankle,
'1nd says that he fear~. for bis life. Understandably so, seeing that pile ot rubble nearby
\;,htch ts what was once his brother Nincompoop Two. Really, 1s there any need to destro1
",omebody just because he's got a fracture and his steel bones show through? A single
Charlie Duke, I am told, "can do the repairing with just his prayers. I don't know what
')ur Ci v 11 Engineers are coming to these days. You 1'ind them swarming around the infamous

