- '5 Quark meafll IT-.1ng the latitude, lonpitude, elevation and what not ot • Uttle lIour,d. Thil! 1.
turning out to be a yearly feature. Littla cbo they kn8w that the mr,und they are deeeer-hUn,
by putting their tripods on, is where mf dear f~iend, Denver the Deer, went hack to the
good soil from which he sprang.
Coming to deer, you may recall that I had started enquiries about the rights Of tbe
authorities to kill deerQjust onthe ground Of their being bitten by doge, 'Prowlinr tbe
corridors of the Ad Block' read the report in the Feb. issue of Campaatimes. But
twas
no prowling that I d vi. That was mere runnin% up and down. Nobody there seeN to know
anything about anything. At least, that was the impression I got. I bad to abandon tbe
quest when the lift attendant there told me to trim my hair, place a couple of roses 1n
my buttonhol~a and generally look better if I was plannbng to be a permanent fixture in
his elevator.
()
0
Being a regular contributor to Campastimesohas ita own advantages. I receive Bome
o i.
very intriguing letters at times. A dear lady who resides in a first-floor apartment wltb1~
the C'ampuB wrote to "me last week. ~hough she wishes to remain incognito, I am sure she
woulddt mind my quoting from her letter. "Here I stand nea~ the barred window of this well
padded cell making faces at the passers-by. The beauty of the early morning when tbe crowe
f
roll up from their roosts and the cocks begin to crow, the Bun peeping out above the borl~onc
the beauty of the evening, the orange glow and the birds flying by 1n a perfect V-format1oJl,
the interesting faces of the pedestrians and the Bho~ked looke they give when I tease them.
these are the only things which I enjoy in this drab, dull existence w• So it goes ODe
Towards the end she talks about ho~ none of her relatives believe her when sbe insiste tbat
she is a purple brinjal. May it not be true if I'n the world as she sees it, we are green,
insane cucumbers?
o
Talking of insanity, my thoughts, natur~lly, turn to tbat new book of selected pOeBS
of Pritish Nandy. I don't know what's coming ~er these modern poets. I for one, would be
hapny curled up with a Tennyson or Longfellow. These modern poets try to be original, with
eaoh trying to outshine the other. Take Nandy for example. He is a genius in that be has
done something which nobody e1 ~e had thought of before I he starzB each line with a colon
in one of his poems. Hia obsession with the colon is plain for all to see. Th~re is no
other punctuation mark througheut the book except for a few slashes here and there. Here
is one of his geme :
question
love is a
continent
image lode
o
Menelaus
Chiselled
&eatly
in
languap;e
both!) c ompe lling

magical
Detritus praying to
Eichmann
o
r «) otherwise
the night 1s
cold
llB e mathemat1cs
to solve problems of position!
location
point in s pac e
the calculus of
illogical love
on
e1the]:, .Bide
of arroganc e
I dr'l.w I;he line

