- 11 -

JOh prospeots. And let me tell you, the generation of these ideas sterna from the student
community themselves. So, if they do maintain such contradictory ideas then ~ mind can
just reason that on this high pitch, stressful road to the B.Tech de~ree, they be,,!n to
be".ieve that what they are doing or getting here iB par excellence or they lose a "J"eat
deal of their eensitivity to human problems and emerge lust interested in what their
degrees fetch them.
You c~n of course quest jon whether I tried to get to the bottom of this overwhe1m1n~
feelin~ of disaopointment and apathy.! did ask a question here and there.
I t~iFd t~ pu~'
out some material locked in Lhe subconscious, to put into concrete processes some of their
latent thoughts. They said that the academic overload is too much. If you drive a person
too far or expect ~oo much out of him, he ends up doing nothing or doing everytbinF wron~,
or gets programmed to function like an automaton and leaves his emotional self by the wa'!stie.
But then is the load on overload? Isn't it true what the wise old men ~ald, tha. to ~et
something out of life there has to be a greater input. And if the excellent job with ita
pus'1 button confortE?) is the utopia the student is aiming for does he not have to strive
and strive? Of course the hardedgee of the curricula could be oftened with courses spaced
out with times to breathe in between, classes~ructured once in a way to involve both the
taugbt and the teacher in some illuminating discussion, and with no arbitrary evaluation.
The latter is what we psychologists would give a very technioal name, but I would prefer tn
lay it simply before you. PrejUdices and antagonisms. from either side, and baaed on sll~ht
frictions, or certain aots of impulsive misdemeanor«, or personal dislikes, should not be
generalized to other critical situationa like evaluation time eto. With due apology to
human failings, I'm so~ry to saY that this happens once too often. Mr. X enra~es Mr. Y
on a slight unacoountable incident and Mr.Y sees to it that Mr. X never forgets it. Now
X or Y can belong onoe again to the category of the teacher 01) the taught. But then we are
after all bumans. May be technological institutes also need mechanized robots doing the
learning or the teaching. May be such a retaliation on D\Y part 1s uncalled tor. But atter
all I'm just penning some impressiOns.
Another interesting aspeo~ most s~udents verbalized about was t~e passive interaction
between the teacher and taught. Possibly the students, encapsulated in this oampus of f~rest8
and technology and :rar from bome and the hustle of the city could· like a free, harmonious
relationship with the members of the faculty. Or is it too muCh to expect? Would the student
misuse this interaction? Would the teacher feel rather low if he has to prove himself
to be a friend to the student? I rarlly cannot say. All I can say is why not ~ive it a
try. Of cours~ the identity of the teacher has to be very clear cut. The distance or
dignity he maintains inside those four walls need not be a barrier to Ilia lnterao'tloll with
the students outside in the fresh evenings or under night skies. The teacher may have to
function in dichotomous roles of b~ing a dIgnified expositor ot knowledge inside the ClaS8
and a friendly individunl outside. :s this not possible? I'm sure it will not result in
an identity crisis or a split personality syndrome in the teacher. And 1 hope it will not
even promote the students getting an upper hand. Will it? The proof of the puddlng
is in the eating and I think its time we at least got the ingredients of the pUdding together.
Before fj nishing this monologue I must add something more. I was aeked lIlY
impressions as a counsellor. Conoepts ~ike counselling, p~ychology or psychiatry do not
signify raving lunacy or people running out into the sreets with torn olothe and agre9s1ve
outbursts.' Rsychiatry is nothi;g but lending a direction to some of the oontuaed thoughts
of young m:i nds; confusion begotten in this over competitive frenEY ot the olass. conf'ualon
also ari8~ng from the faot that when they stepPed into lIT they war. brilliant stara whioh
shone alone and bright in their homes and sohools and which then oame bere and found
thousand other stars shining. What a tragio blow I And then even it some ot tbe stare

