- 16 -

mav1, but 1 don't th1uk in e real sense, we oare. I still think that the~e Is massive
conspiracy of the few a~a1nst the ffinSSOS of the oountry.
8. Would y~u blame the politicians for this?
.A. Who ar'., the politicians? They are products of what we want to create. So you oan't hllUle)
them. They are produced by us. They are perpetuating what we want them to. The pol1tlc.1!l.l1
~hat we are talking about is nothing but symptom
of a sick society.
9. Do you think our country would be left behind if she diJn't go in tor high te~hnology?
.4.. We must make clear distinctions here. Thers are areas where we must have hIgh techno) "n
in older to survive in this highly competitive worl1. However there are many areas where lo.w
tc.;hnology will solve 0"1' problema much faster.
10. What about colour T.V?
.A.
I wish we would use TV for maos education and rural and slum develonment programmes.
Instead most of the TV programmes are worth nothing. They are imported from the West and
they are shuwn to the people who could have seen them anyway whetber it is a dance or mue
programme • .,; So TV seeing serves no p'.lrpoae. It t S an irrelevant technology at present, the
way it is 'being utilised though it is a marvellous and powerful tool for development.
11. ~r ~ociety is fatalistic. We believe in fate and that each one is what he's suppose4
to be. Now do you think such a society can rebel?
A. I don't b~lieve that things can continue like this forever. It's question of time. feot 1e
are fatalistic and will continue to remain :for a long period of time but when it comes to thl"h'
ee1f interest people will realise that fate is not what determines their future. A good
example is the 'rasta roko' in Bombay. I do see a pOint bere but them most eorietiee are
fatalistic, not just our own. It i~ alwE7s secure to be fata~istic since the future is alway~
unpredictable and nobody wa"ts to take the responsibility for it. I think: fatalism is
exaggerated in India; bowever I Came~cross many people in Europe and South America who are
equally fatalistic.
12. What are your views on the Silent Valley project?
A. I am dead agalnBt it. My main reason for this - there are several reasons - is that in
this country we have taken the whole problem of environment for granted. We think tbat we
have a right to maraud, destroy, and eliminate nature as we want. If we do not realise the
larger forces that exist in the stream o:C nature then, I think, we are very short-sighted,
very selfish and in the end sel£-destructive.
I was told that this area-(IITj was a big forest. If I had the choice I'd have never put
lIT here. I'd bave put it somewhere else and saved this forest in perpetuity as a lunp for
the city of Madras. It is these fo~ests which pleBerve the eco-system ot the entire area.
13. how far have you been getting cooperation from the Governm3nt?
.A.. /u3 far as my experi,ence goes, I'd say that the role of academecians, SCientists, planners
is limited in our society. We live in
isolated ivory towers. Our influence on the politlc~
proc eS3 is very, very limited and tbe forces of poll tics are very powerful. They control,
they determine on grounds which are totally irrelevant,the aspects o~ scientific ~evelopment.
As far as our influence is concerned, I think it is very mar~inal. We are contributIng to a
perpetuation of the system rather than its cha~e.
14. Don't you get frustrated then? Don't you :feel you're waging a futile battle? You might
be regret till€ why you came back.
.
.A.
It is futile, I ''lill be honest, in the .a~lV3e that it is a cry In the wilderness. The way
our cities are going, I'm sick of it.'1hetwayourecology is being destroyed, I'll have to cry
for thousand year. I do not know what the so~ution is. I think ultimately it lies in
SCientists, educationists, technolOgists becoming part of the political process. They've
to come out of their hideouts. The tragedy for most of US is that we are shy ot challenging
the political forces because then our base is broken. We are also shy ot facing the political
reality because it 1e 80 dirty and fi ~thy.
We may be holding high posts - Directors and Secretaries - and some of' us may be doing
brilliant work, but ultimately we have to ae~ the question 'What is it doing to our country?'
We have responsibilities towards the future of this country. If this is taken into acrount,
I think we are a failure ihCluding myself. .Because we are overwhelmed by the system alid
we accept it and our fervour dies away.
15. One of our extra-mural lecturers bad pleaded for a more humanistic basis in science.
What •••••••• ?
A. I'm an anti-humanist. In all our scientific theories and plarmi~ we can't put man as
the centre o~ the universe. The humanism of the 19th century Is totally irrelevant to tbe
20th century. I think if I were to put anything at tbe centre 01 the universe, I'd put a tree
because Iran and man~s values, to a great extent. are irrelevant to the preservation of this
planet. It's good to be nice to you and have sympathy for you and all that but I think
there are more important ecological cOJlSlderationB for this planet.
16. Do you believe in Bomething like God?
A. That Question 1s ir~elevant to me because I don't understand it. What I dontt understand
I say I don't know. If you ask me. 'Do yo~ believe in •••••• kakapoopoo'? I vontt know
what you are talking about. You may b£ve a meaning ~or it. but I don't.
11. It' s Jl:>t acient!f lea11 y proven, is 1 t?
A. It its not scientifically proven, I don't be1eive it ••••• anything. fhat doe. not meafl
I'll not be go~ to you. I do believe in ethics and tbe larger values 01 SOCiety. !boae who
are humanists are sometimes tbe ~OBt ~xpl01tative people. Sympathy tor a ~oor man. a begpar.
is the worst thing I can think of. I want beggars to bave the same opportunities that I bave
in this system. :rilen Pm really a bumanist. But to work in tbe slums as a social worker and
t'> take care or 10,000 decrepit people is a totally anti-buman activity. fo work toward.
ohanging the co!'dltlone that we all have an opportunity to share tbe resources and develop
our potent1~1 fully 1& to my mind. really bumanist. Ve must work with tbe causes and Dot
with the symptoms.
1Ei, But Qo.1enc~ 111 meant to serve tbe people.

