ISSUE NO: 7

DATE: 14.3.81

EDITORIAL:
MANDAK RAG hasn't yet received the funds promised to it. I
hope this will be rectified quickly, although we have spent only
Rs. 2Q till now.
The cassette tape deck which should have been installed
long ago is not yet fully functioning, and was taken away for
'repair' a few days ago. Pondy and Co. have recorded about 7
cassettes of their choice, without caring to know what was
generally wanted by the inmates. Till the cassette deck is
working properly, the turntable should be available at all times.
It would be nice if Pondy could keep the whole hostel informed
about such matters via the notice board.

******
LETTER TO THE EDITOR:
Sir,
I am glad that MANDAK RAG, in response to my su~gestion,
has agreed to start a column dealing with various current topics.
In the first edition of it, given below, lIT chauvinism is
discussed. Next week's topic is PERIODICALS - OH! WHAT A PAIN.
Meanwhile, any views for or against this week's topic may be
sent to me. If preferred, the names shall be kept anonymous.
~~----~--------------

Mandakini.

Rajeev Jayaraman.

******
CHAUVINISM IN lIT

--Rajeev aayaraman
This probably is a very controversial topic, not
D as
you may think. But as far as I am concerned, this topic has no
controversy. Every thing is crystal clear and there is no doubt
that basically and fundamentally all of us have turned into male
chauvinists. Every facet of Institute life clearly depicts this.
During the inter-hostel competitions the girls' hostel is
always booed - not because they aren't good, but because they are
girls. I needn't specify any specific example_- the inter~hostel
quiz, western music.
We like cracking jokes at the expense of the faires sex.
How many inmates in this hostel haven't commented on girls in
the campus? Probably one could compile a massive dictionary with
words coined for the females who hadn't done as much as borrowing
a book from you. And if by chance good thoughts prevail, and the
student does say a decent word about the girls, immediately
(according to us) the student has flipped for the girl or some
such wierd rot.
We generally try to degrade females passing the JEE. 10hZ
She is a freak; just a muggo yaar, no brains.' That is a pre~ty
common statement. We cannot accept the fact that girls too can
be intelligent. Even if one gets a decent CGPA (9 points or so)
She is still a muggo. Does it not reflect harshly on our own
chauvinistic behaviour? Why do we regard girls as inferior in
every way? Is it because we are socially immature or is it because
we are all confirmed chauvinists?
How ma,y times, during boring lectures in HSB, have we
come across perverted graffiti? I needn't specify what the
caligraphy depicts - ~t is all too well known. What pleas~re
people get by commenting on other people, especially females,
is beyond me.
Another point is the mixing up of the sexes. We ten~ to
have a standard approach twwards this. Boy A talks to female B.
Someone cracks a joke and A and B laugh. Typical inference A has flipped for B or vice versa.
I am not inclined to believe that we are socially immature
as for 16 y~ars, all of us have come across females either at
home or attschool. Still why are we so orthodox and decadent in
our views? I think the only reason is that we are all confirmed
chauvinists.

