EDITORIAL
It is with great pleasure that we pre- heing the first issue of our Mag~zif1e. (here
sent this maiden issue of the Magazine on are bound to be short-comings which rnay
April 25, 1960, the First' Institute Day.
be pardoned.
We take this opportunity to thank the
The Indian Institute of Technology
contributors of alticles to tbe magazine and
which is a symbol of goodwill between the
the advertisers for their patronage.
peoples of West Germany and India came
also thank Mis. Gannon Dunkerly for
into being in July 1959. During this period
their donation. We are grateful to the
we have had manifold activities in various
Institute authorities Prof. B. Sengupta, our
spheres. In spite of having a meagre
Director, Shri R. Natara;an1 our Registrar
strength of 120, today we can look back at
and Dr. D. Venkateswarlu, our Warden
•
our achivements. which of course give us
for aU tbe facilities they have given us this
the inspiration to determine to do someyear in the fields of SPQrlts, literary
thing still better that would bring glory to
and cultutral activities. We are indebted to
our Institute. Needless to mention our
Shri P. S. Srin:vasan and Shri D. S. Subrah umble and earnest contrIbutions are
many am, Resident Warden~ for the help
under way towards making our Institute
and encouragement they have given us in
" a rich armoury and treasury for the
all our extra curricular activities.
glory of the Creator and the ennoblement
We look forward to the next academic
of life."
session, which we understand, will be in
We have in this issue reports of the our own spacious buildings set in sylvan
various activities of the students during the surroundings1 now getting ready inside
year and articles on diverse topics contri- the Deer Park, with more teachers on
buted by our academic staff and students. our staff and more students.
A perusal of the reports will show that our
We shall also look to still greater
activities are multifarious and our achieve- activities on all fronts-sports, literature,
ments satisfactory. We admit that this music and, of course, in our regular studies.

We

An Editor's Job
Getting out a Magazine is no picnic
If we print jokes, people say we are silly
If we don't, t}1ey say we are too serious
If we clip things fron other magazines,
We are too lazy to write them ourselves
If we don't we are stuck on our own stuff
If we don't print every word of all contributions, we
don't appreciate genius
If we do print them, the columns are filled with Junk
If we make a change in the other fellow's, we are too critical
If we don't, we are blamed for poor editing
But we did all for this ~lagazmt',

