INAUGURA TION OF THE INSTITUTE
The institute was inaugurated on July 31,
1959 by Professor !Iumayun Kabir, Union
Minister of Scientific Research and Cultural
Affairs. The function held in a spacious and
decorated pandal in Guindy was attended by a
large and distinguished gathering.
Shri Bishnuram Medhi, Governor of Madras,
Shri A. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar, Chairman
of Board of Governors of the Institute, Herr
von Heyden, West German Charge de Affairs
at New Delhi, Shri C. Subramaniam, State
Finance and Education MlOister were the other
distinguished speakers of the evening, in addi~
tion to Professor Kabtr ~ Prof. R. Krauss,
Germany's Special Commissioner for the
establIshment of the Madras Institute, flew to
India from Germany to partIcIpate in the
maugural function. Shri L. S. Chandrakant,
SpecIal Officer, proposed a vote of thanks.
Sh,i M edhi said the Institute would stand
as a vIsible symbol 'Of friendship between the
peoples of the Federal Republic of Germany
and 01 tndia. He saId the Higher Technological Institutes, which were veritable temples of
learning, would hasten lndia's march towards
prosperity. He said the students joining the
Institute have a great responsIbility in not only
learning and mastering the latest development
in technology but also in uhhsing their know.
lege for the development of country's resources
and building it up.
Dr. Lakshmanaswmy Mudaliar, welcoming
the gathering said that the courses to be conduct..
ed covered the field civil, mechanical, electri.
cal, chemical and metall urgical engineering.
When fully established, the Institute would
have 1500 students in the first degree course
and 500 students in the postgraduate courses and
research work. It would be a fully residental
institution both for students and staff.
Dr. Mudaliar hoped that in future industries
in India would reahse more and more~ as

industries had realised in the more advanced
countries that unless opportunities were given
to students and post.graduate students to be in
touch with the industrial establishment and for
those working in industries occasionally to get
into touch likeWise, with the more theoritical
but nevertheless important aspect of tecbnical
education in bur institutions, the desired progress could not be maintained.
Shri Subra1Jtaniam said the technical pet..
sonnel available in the country were not
adequate even to meet the present demands.
He hoped the Institute would not merely be a
teaching instItutIOn but would grow into a
research centre from which greater knowledge,
new discoveries and lllventions would flow not
only for the benefit of India but for the people
of the world as a whole.
Herr "on Heydon said that part of the
equipment needed for the Institute had already
been shipped from Germany and the rest
would be delivered aceording to schedule. He
said in spite of her pre-eminence in indu~try
and in the application of scientific knowledge
to material. hfe, Germany believed in the
developmept of man as an integrated being.
Before the dawn of the industnal age, Germany
had distingUIshed hersclf by her contribution to
the world of culture in the realms of literature
and philosophy. She attached importance to
the syntheSIS of the two aspects of human mind.
namely, the irrational matrix, from which arts
sprang forth and its rational layer on what
science grew. In fact, promoting a balance
between the two was an important task, if in
midst of rapid matenal progress in the present
world, man should not forget his soul. He
saId the Madras Institute would not be onlA
technologtcal in character, but it was belOg
fobnded on a basis, which combined teehologlcal studles. hUmallltIes and socIal ~('lpn{'PC

