students entered degree courses and about
4,000, students entered diploma courses. thus
the ratio being almost 1 : 1. The number of
persons in the P. G. courses in 1947-48 was
negligible, not even 100, To-day that number
was about 500, so that the imbalance between
under.graduate and graduate teaching had
been to some extent rectified, but not suffi..
ciently ~ The imbalance between diploma and
degree holders had also been rectified to some
extent. As against the ratio 1: 1, ~t would be
1 : 2 by the time the Second Five Year Plan
was over, There would be about 25.000
entering diploma courses as against 13,000
entering degree courses. Prof. Kabir said there
should be a still wider expansion at the
Pointing out how foreign countries had been diploma level. He hoped in the Third Five
helping Indra in establishing the institutes, Year Plan comparatively greater emphasis
Prof. Kabir sard such co-operation and colla- would be laid on this aspect.
boratIOn bad in it an element of competition
The minister felt that they had not yet paid
i'n exce'rtenee.
adequate attention to educatIOn at the postThe Union Mlfltster said though the Madras
graduate and research level Of course, the
InstJtute was thud to be started, it had the
industries in IndIa offered co-operation in this
advantage of startIng straightaway the five-year
respect but not adequately. Greater collaboraintegrated courseJ whIch the other instItutions
tion between industrIes and research at all
could not think of at the time of starting. He
levels would be advantageous to the industry
said this integrated scheme would soon become
and the country as a whole,
the pattern of engineering education in the

Prolessor Kabi, said the inauguration of the
Institute marked the beginning of the fulfilment
of a dream. He said they should be gratefuL
to West Germany for their generous assistance.
He was sure the German Rrofessors and experts
would lay down the traditions of the institution
on sound and progFessive lines and give it the
thoroughness and efficiency, which. charac.
terised scientific and technical education in
Germany. He was also certain the German
ex.perts giving practical training to students
woul<i liel p in raising the standard of the
cultivation of manual skill of the students,
which was almost neglected in their edu.
cation.

country. In the Madras InstitGte students
In the" age of the engineer" today, the role
wO'uld altefnatively attend theoretical and played by the engineer was of far-reaching
w(i)r~shGp lessons. The" sandwich system"
consequence. because the introduction of new
wou14 hetp to give the students that re.orienta- technological programme very often changed
tIon, which sometimes bad to be secured after the economy of the country. He also referred
they t{)ok theiF degrees, by actually working to Germany's contnbution to development of
in industries.
phIlosophYJ music and hterature along with her
achievements in the field of science and said
The Minister then dealt with what he called
the eternal verities of hfe should become part
imbalance between degree and dIploma holders
-of the student's mental make up.
and between graduate and under.graduate
teaching in engmeerlDg educatIOn in the
Extracts from ( THE HINDU ~,
~ouDtry. He said in 1941.48 about 3,000

Eight

