AMBER-OLD, YET NOT FORGOTTEN
Y.

SAHAI.

"Oh wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful But it rolls coolly through the gate like an
and yet again wonderful. ........... "
ivory ball on the billiard table.
In between the Thar Desert and' .. fertile
plains of the Ganges lies a medium size society
full of ancient wonders, a city full of stories
of brave, of wars; a city that attracts tourists
by the hundreds, a city they call Amber (Old
Jaipur).
Tourist to the capital never fails to complete
the scalene wlth Delhi, Agra and Jaipur as
vertices and he prefers to do th~ mileage by
car for the roads that form the $;ides of the
triangle are well denned, full of beautIful
scenery and do not cause damage to the
springs of the seat of the car or the tourist.
As he comes from Delhi he makes it a point
to halt at Amber for a few hours to admire
the works of the past that have lived to be
liked by the present.
His car halts at the parking place provided
and he mounts the back of a decorated elephant. A "moohwat" is there to guide the
elephant, so there is no need to panic. At
his orders, conducted by means of a sharp
harpoon, the sitting pretty rises and soon you
are sitting on top of the world. Those of you
who have seen "The wind cannot read" know
what happens next but I wi1l describe it for
the benifit of those unlucky who have mIssed
the movies. The tourists are treated hke
maharajas of the past-a oae string fiddle
plays a tune (featured in the movie) while the
huge mass plods uphill. The ride is expensive
but highly enjoyable and as they draw near
the palace gate the excitement reaches a
climax. Will he make it? WIll we have to
bend our heads? Will we go through it alive?

As you reach the actual palace the guide is
busy worrying you with details about this and
that but you hardly notice his blabbering for
you cannot take your eyes off the beauty that
is singular about this pal ace. The
"moohawat" digs the harpoon in the great
neck and the world under you sinks. You
climb down the reliable rope ladder. The
elephant is up again. He salutes you lIke
only he can. You take a snap of this stately vertebra. Then you are asked to climb a
flight of stairs and get lost In the building
which was there before your great grand fath·
er's thumb sucking days. There are many
things of interest in this heavenly place but I
will not attempt to catalogue them. However
it would be a pity to overlook the temple of
Sheela Devi (Kali) made entirely of black and
white marble. It is a tribute the old Raja's of
Jaipur paid to their beloved goddess. The
beating of drums and ringing of bells produce
the best atmosphere for off6ring prayers.
The "Balidan" (sacrifice) is a ceremony
worth a watch. if you can stand the sight of
blood oozing out of a goat's neck as life
struggles out of its body. The animal to be
offered is annointed ",ith ., tilak" and its
horns are tied to a string, the end of which
is in the hands of a priest. A silver tray is
held under the head. The devotee holds the
sword high in the air and in one stroke rids the
body of its head. The head must go In one
stroke and it must not fall on the ground. The
tray and head and wine are then offered to
the goddess.

