Sheesh mahal (hall of mirrors) is another
place of interest. Here pieces of coloured
mirrors are embedded in the celing and wal1s
of a room so that when a candle is lit thous"
ands of images are visible.
t(

H

The corridors are ramped and not many
stairs are found, because in the good old days
the raja's preferred a carriage to a walk.

said to contain the idol of Lord Krishna
which the celebrated woman worshiped. It
is said that a Maharaja of Amber brought it
from Chitor, acting upon a warning in a
dream, to save it from the unholy hands of
the moghuls when the great city fell into the
mogul's hands.

A small lovely lake is situated at the base
of the hIllock on which the palace is built.
The platform of this artjfical lake has become
the site of a beautiful garden. In the middle
of this lake is perched a garden island which
is built as a series of decenting platforms.
Each platform has a pattern of hexagonal
sections in which are placed different coloured
flowers. Water faUs from one platform to
the other over shelves in which coloured Jights
can be placed. Wilen illuminated, it is a sight
to behold. But of course those days are gone
and the sections have no flowers and the
shelves, no lights.

At the level lower than the palace lie the
numerous ruins of· buildings that made up the
old city of Jaipur, while at a higher altitude
can be seen an old fort, Jaighar, which till
very recent times was used as the state treasu"l
rye The fort is not open to public and it
is alleged that the place is guarded by a clan
of ancient Rajputs with typical beards. Even
the Maharaj~ was not allowed to visit this fort
whenever he f eIt like. The privilege wa~
given to him only once in his life time and
then he was allowed to take only one thing
(whatever pleased him most). The choice
was a mark of hIS character. The present
One may be inclined to believe that because
Maharaja, who has already celebrajed his of the advance of science, the advent of the
silver jubilee long ago has not decided to visit use of atoms for peace, the launching of
this place.
sputniks, that the world today is more ad.
vanced than the world of the past but when
A~idst the ruins of the old city is another one looks at a place like Amber, doubt creepS
lovely temple, Mira Bhai's Temple, which is in and one often wonders.

MY TEAM TO MARS
R.

NATARAJAN, I. A. S.

The Lunik and the Rocket have brought
the Sun, the Moon and the Constellations
almost to our doorstep. Add to these, the
flying saucers which have been \ described as
manned flights to the earth made by the men
of Mars. It would appear that we are on the
threshold of an era of interplanetary trave1.
It was only the other day that the Soviet pen..
nant was planted on the Moon; it will be only
a mat tc r of time, I fancy, before a cricket
team lands in Mars.
Ten

Choosing a cricket XI of the choicest vintage of the earth to cballenge Mars has been a
popular pastime with cricketers and critics
alike. Neither Fingleton nor Neville Card us
was able to resist the tern ptation to set down
his best team. When this is so, it will be lit..
tIe surprise tha t I fell an easy prey to the
Magazine Editor on a fateful Friday when I
had not many files to fiddle with.
I know that naming a team that will be
acceptable to one and al1 is next to the im-

