possible. In fact I have often wondered how
these self constituted "selectors" have
manouevred themselves off the range of ripe
tomatoes and rotten eggs. With this apologetic
preface, I name my team below:-

ethereal flight. The mantle of Bradman has
fallen on the broad shoulders of O'Neill. No
Mongol hordesman or Tartar swordsman has
been more savage than O'Neill in the annihi.
lation of the opposing bowlers.

1. R. Benaud (Australia) - Captain.
2. Peter May (England) - Vice-captain.
3. M. O'Neill (Australia).
4. M. C. Cowdrey (England).
5. G. Sobers (West Indies).
6. R. N. Harvey (Australia),
7. Hanif Mohamed (Pakistan).
8, J. Waite (South Africa) -Wicket.. keeper.
9. A, K. Davidson (Australia).
10. F. S. Trueman (England).
It. H. J. Tayfield (South Africa).

After the retirement of Tallon and "Jack in
tbe Box " Evans, the pride of place as wicket..
keeper should go to John Waite .of South
Af rica. Besides possessing a steady pair of
gloves, Waite wields the willow to purposes.
He is a good opening batsman.

My nomination of Benaud as skipper, I
venture to say, will be voted for by all. He
led a battIe-weary, sulking Aussie team to
victory over the much vaunted, all conquering
English side of Peter May. We had occasion
to catch glimpses of Benaud's astute captaincy
in the recent Indo-Australian test series. His
move in bringing on the change off-break
bowler Harvey to dismiss a confident Milka
Singh in the Indian II innings in the Fourth
test at Madras will be remembered as a master stroke of willow-craft. " Captaincy"
said Doug Jardine, "requires practice". Yes,
it is no doubt true. But c&ptaincy has also
another fount and that is cricket genius, which
Benaud has in " Munich beer Mug" quantities. Besides being an agressive captain,
"Benaud is now the best slow leg-break bowler
in the world as also a hard hitting batsman
and a grand gully fieldsman.

My opening bowlers will be the fiery Fred
Trueman of England and Australia's Alan
Davidson, who swings the ball like a cham..
pion. The latter is an aggressive batsman as
well and such an excellen t slip fielder that he
has earned the sobriquet of "The Claw"
for bringing off catches that win matches.
Trueman is a match winning bowler. Much
water has indeed flowed since Keith Mtller
dismissed him as " Just another bowler."
My opening batsmen will be Cowdrey and
the young Hanif Mohamed of Pakistan. Sir
Leonard Hutton recently described Hanif as
one of the two best openers in the present
day world. Cowdrey has sbown his skill as
an opener in no uncertain manner during the
recent Anglo-West Indies test series.

The spin-foil to Benaud will be off.. spinner Hugh Tayfield who has recently emerged
out of retirement. Fingleton, while describing Jim Laker of '( LakerIoo" fame as a
c. grand bowler, chose to describe Tayfield as
" great "bowler. While Laker required the
"green" English pItches to aid and a bet his
leather~sorcery, Tayfield trundled on sun..
None will dispute the passage of Mayor baked wicket') and plied his off.. spinner's
Cowdrey. May comes into the side as one of trade with princely profits.
the three finest batsmen in the world. Cow..
I can e\'en now hear murmurs of dis cent.
drey is the heir of Hammond. The West
Indians knew it only too well during the Is Worrell not included? Why not Fazal or
recent" Soda bottle" series in the Caribbean, Gupte? What about Kanhai of the West
Indies? I have no objection to your taking
Sobers and Harvey are two of our finest these also along-only please make sure
left-handed batsmen. When these two are at before hand that the men of Mars will not
the wicket, pens wag and poesy takes to its protest against playing a side of fifteen.

