" Q,,*
P. C.

GUPTA,

Life is no longer a mystery. It is just an tions while boarding a train they would not
integration of queueing up on mentaL moral wait for the inside passengers to come down
and physical planes. He that knows the art first with the result that the stoppage time is
of queueing up is of the greatest use tp huma. wasted in quarreJ1ing and when their train has
passed, the inside passengers learn that their
nity today.
little Minu is missing, while the outside pasA queue must have a definition. Yes: we sengers on the platform discover, that they
can define it as an assembly of men and ha ve been relieved of one or two bundles. And,
women, one behind the other, with some 10, Motumal's pocket has been picked. What
common object, be it purchasing a ticket from happens when a young man's suit case is
a booking window, paying of dues. at I. 1. T. exchanged wJth that of a girl, can be appreci·
fee counter, taking dish from the mess counter ated from personal experience only.
or waiting for an entrance into heaven or hell.
Queue is a miniature country. Look at
What is called a file in scouting is termed as a
your
neighbour in the queue. His gold rimqueue in daily life. So one need not start day
dreaming of fair sex simply because queue med glasses, dhoti and shawl remind you of
some great man. Then there is the smart
means a plait of hair also.
man, who, without knowing communism at
It has got a well defined and unjversal1y all, opens his umbrella, when it rains in
respected set of conventions. You have to Moscow. Next is Bala Suraj Mal who will
stand behind or by the side of the person who purcbase a ticket for Gujerat. He seems to
reacbes the particular place earlier than you. be burning in (Virahagni,' for you can see
If there is an accident on the road and those smoke over his pagri but he would say that
who have nothing else to do are eager to have the comrade has thrown his burning cigarette
a first hand information of the mishap, they
carelessly over his head. Please be alert
should make a queue. You should not try to
lest you miss a glance of Miss with her skil·
elbow in your way and reach the person fully braided hair, fine saree, the microscopic
involved, simply because she happens to be
wrist watch and the magnifying glass in
your better-half.
her vanity bag if she needs to see the
Then there are certain bye laws at times time at all. Here comes Mdm. Defarge huitmore important than the constitution of a ting the features of the so called humanities.
country. While boarding a bus, seats are Why is this &imple woman crying f She is
provided first to ladies and then to (gentle) leaving tbe queue as her little son is missing.
men. If the number of ladles exceeds the Thank God! she bas got her son back. He
number of vacant seats, gentlemen, sitting went on kicking the ball of woo], which fell
already will offer the Iadiet their seats. Queue down from Mdm Defarge's hand, in search of
a goal.
sense should be coupled with common sense.
No statistical data are available to judge
Under ordinary traffic regulation you can
where India stands in this particular field. Yet overtake a vehicle by passing in the right only.
some estimate can be made from the observa- But look at Mr. Pigmy who goes ahead of
,*Pnze WmDmg Contnbution,

