Shri Guriner by his special method without
As soon as he faced the clerk, the clock
passing by the right (Can't you imagine swim- dropped the bolt from the blue tun, tun, it
ming in the river under a bridge) So your queue was three part meridian.
bears a testimony to Darwins' theory of
I am sorry, Mr. unfortunate, time's up"
Evolution.
tun, The author was stuned only.
CI

A word of caution is necessary at this stage.
Partial application of this system is as much
barmful as the entire system is encouragin~
and beneficial. The present writer himself
was a victim of the partial acceptance of the
system. In one of his former schools girls
used to pay their tution fees from inside the
counter, while boys had to queue up outside.
After standing for one hour and twenty three
minutes in the queue he reached the counter.
He was very glad to have better fight. How
beautiful those faces but soon he learnt that
roses had thorn~. He waited for 83 minutes
for his time to come but did not realise that
the time for closing down had also come.

"Please," said a gentle voice," I was
detained by my friend,:' "That's all right.
I haven't yet closed the account."
The author closed his eyes to pray to the
Almighty to grant the clerk a good sense.
When he opened his eyes, she was Just going
back with what is called an ear to ear smile a
sm ile at the chivalrous nature of man. Her
VlctOTlOUS look S, her mocking smile her success In the manner of paroing fees at the
counter left the author broading, Milton's
words flashed across his mind.
"They also serve, who only stand and
wait. "

Lament of the Lamentable
P. S. Srinivasan, B.
There stood I beneath the low-bent bough
WIth the spring's new leaves glIttering green
All my patience summoned, eagerness
suppressed,
Waiting for the Lady of my dreams.
So sure was I of her passmg by
For, was it not but yesterday,
That I had seen her go this way.
The minutes were tICkmg by and by,
My lungs were ejecting many a SIgh
Lips in silent whisper did mutter
Words to her I hop'd to utter
So st-Ood I beneath the tree
With all my thou~ht~ in joyous spree.
There she was around the corner yonder,

E.

Her graceful figure sleek and slender
Clothed in red resplendent hue
'With the yellow border adding its hue
On she came, the real Red Lady.
.My heart now beat faster and faster
But little I knew of the coming disaster
For when she had come very near,
Choked became my throat, dry my tongue
Words would not just fan out
So my hand I feebly put up to stop her
Alas f She with not the slightest pause
DId sweep past me right across
My attempt was thus a complete flop
But then that is the tale of many at the bus
stop.

