ILLUMINATION DESIGN - A SURVEY
B. S. V. GOP ALAM,
Illumination engineering is a technology
of optics. There are many phenomenological
views of illumination. This can be looked
upon in three aspects: (i) develppmental
(ii) application and (iii) controls. The physicist's approach will be purely with the theore..
tical aspect while the engineer's point of view
is purely on the applications side. An applted
physicist is a via media between an engineer
and a physicist and here I wanted to write the
illumination as viewed f rom an applied
physicist's point of view.
Illumination is the light falling on objects.
This topic is connected with various terms
such as the luminaire or a light source, brIghtness, luminous mtensity and luminous efficlen"
cy of the light sources. A non self luminiscent body can be illuminated by a luminaire.
The second part of this is with respect to the
observation with the human eye i. e. light as
received by the eye. This involves the
physiological aspects of the human eye VJZ.,
brightness, glare, relative luminosity of the
eye, stiles crawford effect and purkinzo
phenomena. Glare is the undesirable form of
brightness which causes annoyance.
According to the intensity of the ~ource it
is customary to caIl it as hard, medium and
soft and with some other names. The
developmental side of the illumination has its
origin from the prehistoric days as produ~tion
of fire by friction. The sequence follows with
oil candles, lamps, lanterns, incandescent
iamps, vacuum filament lamps, vapour lamps
and now mercury tube lights with blended
types also. These have some accessories as
fittings and louvres which control the light in
required fashion.
The illumination in its essence according
to its type of use can be classified as
P.Ollrtppn

M. SCI

(i) novelty lighting (ii) interior (iii) exterior
lighting and (iv) directional.

(i) Novelty lighting: Decorative lighting
us~d for ornamentatIOn and consists iIlumimrtion as those in marriages, fountain lighting
and bed room lIghting.
(ii) Interior lighting: Lighting of theatres,. auditoriums, show rooms, laboratories,
workshops, read mg rooms, drawing rooms and
lecture halls, lighting of indicators etc.
(iii) Exterior lighting: Street lighting,
flood lightmg for dramas, games and sports.
(iv)

Directional lighting : Search lights

etc.
The first type of lighting is relatively
simple and can be had according to the IIkmg.
The problems confronted with the latter
three types are (i) shadows (ii) glare (iii) elec(ncal and luminous effIciencies of the sources
(iv) efficiency and the directional coefficients
of the fittings and their accessories.
The present day popularity is for the tube
lights because of the [oHowing obvious advantages: (i) higher efficiency and lesser consump_
tion of power (ii) lesser formation of shadows
(iii) cooling sensation (iv) uniformity of the
light (v) and reduction of most of the glare.
These tube lights which are popular now had
their electrical efficiency increased by using
coiled coil filaments with high work functions,
chokes and condensers. They require starters
to initiate glow. The intensity and colour
then depend vpon the materjal and quota of
phrn;phor.
Efficiency of the fittings depend on the
following: (i) room coefficient w hie h
depends on the geometry of the room to br

