illuminated (ii) reflection coefficients of the
walls, floor and the roofing (lit) geometry of
the fittings, whether they are herni-spherical
parabolic or hyperbolic. (iv) reflection coefficient of the fitting itself, whether it is
diffuse, translucent, transparent or opaque6
This indicates whether light is scattered,
transmitted or reflected.

00 arranged in a regular fashion that are
necessary to produce the said standard illumi..
nation on the study plane. By arranging
adjacent tube hghts in perpendicular dIrections
shadows can be avoided. Avoidance of sharp
corners and cracks minimises the glare.

Street lighting and floor lighting in real
sense are far more difficult and beyond menTherefore the illumination falling on a tion. For the analysis of flood lighti.ng for
point as viewed by a person is a function of infinite room co-efficients point... by-point
0) the positition of the luminaire (ii) efficiency method is useful.
and intensity or'the Iuminaire (iii) efficiency of
The often troubled experiments in the lamp
the fitting (iv) the inclination of the fitting manufacturing companies are the determina(iv) the inclination of the fitting with tions of the efficiencies of the fittings. For
respect to the point under consi- this they have to find the brightness contours,
deration (v) the efficiency of the eye polar plots of illumination in at least two
(vi) the reflection co· efficient of the orthogon~l planes, horizontal and vertical and
space at the point.
determination of M. H. C. P., M. S. C. P.,
(vii) humidity factor.
M. H. S. C. P.. and the reduction factor of
Special types of lighting as is the lighting of the sources. For this the ve'ry handy instruroof s and indicators classify the luminaries as : ment is the Weston photo-electric cell calIbra(i) Direct
ted in lumens. The second and most important
(ii) Semi-direct
factor is the determmation of the reflection
(iii) Semi-indIrect
f actors of the walls, floors and roofs in and on
(iv) Indirect.
the spot survey of the interior or exterior
wlth its external disturbances.
A designing engineer for illuminatIOn there.
fore should survey the part to be illuminat~d.
The author thanks Radio Lamp Works,
He IS to determine the room co-efilcient, effi.. Bombay for allowing him to go through the
ciency lof the lamps and fittings. Next he is design features of illumination of Churchgate
to write down the standard permissible illumI- Station, Metro Cinema and Atomic Energy
nation for the particular purpose (i. e. reading Establishments during his practical training in
or theatre) from the ELMA Bureau specifica- assembling and testing of lamps and instrutions. Next depending on the required ments. Tbis article is based on the informaposition and inclination and its property he is tion gathered in the course of practical
to calculate the number of sources that should training.

