BRAIN TWISTERS
B. S.

BALIGA.

1. A Happy family. (Time Ii min )
Mr. Pai is not as rich as Mr. Shenoy. Mr. Das
In the Brown family t each daughter has the is poorer than Mr. Nayak.
Is Mr. Pai richer or poorer than Mr. Das!
,same number of brothers as she has sisters,
Is Mr. Kamath richer or poorer than Mr.
and each son has twice as many sisters as he
Rau?
has brothers.
Is Mr. Nayak richer or poorer than Mr.
How many sons and daughters are there in
Sheneoy?
the Brown family?
Is Mr. Rau richer or poorer than Mr. Pai?
2. Sally's Dilemma. (Time 2 min.)
Is Mr. Shenoy richer or poorer than Mr
Kamath?
Sally said "The man I marry will be tall,
Who
is
the
richest?
not falf, rather stout, foreign and will never
Who is the poorest?
wear glasses and limp a trifle."
Andri is a tall, dark, foreign and wears glas6. Deserved. (Time 5 min.)
ses but does not limp.
Mr. Sharma gave a cheque in fuil payment
Pedro is not short, wears glasses and limps,
for some work which I had done for him.
is not dark and is by no means stout and is
The cheque was in three figures and for much
foreign. David walks wIth slight lImp and not
more than my bill; so, naturally, I was very
too stout, IS not short and is certatnly not
pleased. As a further gesture of hIS great
dark. He wares glasses and IS decidedly
generosity, Mr. Sharma told me that If I proRussian.
mlsed not to cash the cheque (which I had not
Whom will SalJy marry if these three men
seen yet) he would give me the difference betare her only chances?
ween the product of the three dIgits and their
sum and he assured me that this difference
3. Edna '8 mother. (Time 2. min.)
would
not be a small number. Of course I
Edna is just 1/6 as old as her mother.
Edna's mother's age when divided by 2, 3, 4, jumped at this but when I saw the cheque I
6 & 8 always leaves one rem a ning year, but realized what a fool I was. How much was the
when divided by 5, there is nothlllg left over. cheque?
How old is Edna?
7. Trouble in the Bath room. (Time 4 min.)
The cold water tap in the bath tub can
4. Some gang. (Time 2 min.)
fill
the tub with water in 6 mmutes and 40
A party of 10 conSists of 2 grand fathers, 2
grandmothers, 3 fathers, 3 mothers, 3 sons, seconds. The hot water tap can fill this tub
3 daughters 2 mothers-in-law, 2 fathers-lD-Jaw exactly in eight mInutes. The tub when
1 son-lD-Iaw, 1 daughter-in-law, 2 brothers filled, will empty in 13 minutes when the
stopper is removed.
and 2 sisters. How is this possible?
How long will it take to fill the tub if both
5. Capital Stuff (Time 3 min.)
faucets are going full blast and the stopper IS
Mr. Rau and Mr. Das have exactly the out?
same amount of money. Mr. Prabhu is
8. Alone in the Crowd. (Time 6 min)
however, richer than Mr. Shenoy. and Mr
Shenoy IS richer than Mr. Pai. Mr. Kamath
"Last night", said Harry,. "1 dined with
who is poorer than Mr. Das, but richer than step-brother's nephew's father, my father'S'

