rnother-in-Iaw's husband and my step-mother's
father-in-law, yet I dined alone."
Harry told the truth. How is this possIble?

9....... Kst...... (Time 2 min.)
In a certain word of eight letters, KST is in
the middle, in the beginning and at tbe end.
There is only one K, one S and one T in the
word. What is the word?

ANSWERS
1. Four daughters and tliree sons.
2. Sally remains an old maid'
3. Edna'a mother is 25, Edna is 4 years
and 2 months.
4. The party consists of two little boys and
two ltttle rlfls) their mother and father and
both their mother's and father's parents their
two grandfJthers and two grandmothers.

5. i) Poorer. it) Pooreriu) Richer. iv) Richer
v) Richer VI) Mr. Nayak vii) Mr. PaL
6. The cheque is Rs. !23. 1 X 2 X 3 equals
1+2+ 3 and their difference is zero which is
not a small number.
7. 5 minutes.
8. Harry married the mother of his father's
second wife and had a son: His stepmother
also had a son. Harry is therefore the father
of bis stepbrother's nepbew, the hub and of
his father's mother-in-law and the father·inlaw of his stepmother. He is also his own
grandfather.
9. The word is inkstand. KST is in the
middle. IN is at the beginnmg (In the begin"
ning) and And IS at the end (AND at the
end.)

The Charms of Music
P. S. Sundaram.
When an evil Splnt from the Lord troubled
Saul, King of Israel, his servants ~aid to hIm
"Let our lord command his servants, to seek
out a cunning player on an harp and it will so
happen that when the evil spirit IS entertained
with music, he shall be well." Saul followed
this adVice and when the fit of madness was
upon him next time, David played to him with
his harp, thereby refreshing and driving away
the evil Splf1t .from hIm. Saul was enchanted
with his recuperatIOn and he made DaVId his
heir. ThIS is a story from the BIble, illustra..
tlDg the charms of music.
The middle age found renaissance, flouri.
shing in all its glory, the arts and culture·
Bach, Beethoven and Mozart, were but the
products of that age of culture. The literature
is full of testimony to the charms of music.
In "The Merchant of Venice", Lorenzo,
that dreamy poet of nature and the artIstic

lover of Venice, being struck by the atmosphere of beauty and tranquilIty around him in
the garden of Portia, dIlates upon the melody
of music.
Plato thought that music should have
a great place in the education of the young, at
so high a rate dId he put it., influence on the
mind. His is an ideal in this matter which
has rarely been reached.
Music soothes the mad elephant, comforts
the weepmg child, stImulates the marching
soldIers, elevates to dizzy height the connoisseur of music and lends character to the man
who exploits it' artfully.> In fact music is
classed among the sixty. four literatures
ascribed to the Goddess of knowledge. The
man of music is honoured everywhere for he
is imparting to his fellow men a divine melody
and helps them to drown their WJrnes m the
ocean of music,

