ONE WORLD STATE-ONLY SOLUTION TO WORLD PEACE

R.C.SINHA
"Almost it seems that some terrible destiny
drives the humanity to these ever-recurring
havocs. We are caught into the claws of the
devil from which we cannot easily escape. We
are being choked to death without offering
any resistance. It is the continuous and
stupendous pressure of thIs under which the
world is groaning. We live in the dense
poisonous atmosphere of worldwide suspicion
The one world state is more needed to-day and greed and panic". (Dr. Rabindranath
Tagore).
han at any other time. Two lights are shinng upon the ~horizon of the earth, one which
Naturally, the question arises HIs there no
vJll bring about tbe com plete annibJ1ation of escape from this devil dance of pillage and
nankind. The other will bnng about an murder of innocent women?" Must we sub:verlasting peace, prosperity and happiness to scribe to this 'hell-fire' and witness the whole
mf earth. At present there is hardJy any humanity shattered into bits? No, certainly
)eace on earth. Even where there is some not. The only solution is the e:Jtablishment
dnd of peace, it is a troubled peace with fear of one world state. It is evident that as we
)f war and preparation for war. The under- have done in the case of indivJduals to stop
ying principle is "If you want peace, be pre- robbery, violence and killing by the enforceJared for war".
ment of law and order, we can do in the case
of nations too by making some supreme laws
Everyone is living in a perpetual distrust
by which they would be governed. TW0
3very sound of a footstep, every rustle of
nations can always settle their dIfferences by
novement in the neIghbourhood sends a thnll
means of peaceful negotiatIOns. But if they
)f terror all around. The only moral law of
are unable to do so, there should be some
he earth is that all people must strengthen
heir physical, moral and intellectual reSOUf- arbItratIOn.

The.. idea of one world state is often regard~d as a fantastic utopia but in fact it is like
,mall seeds which contain life and will sprout
md grow producing flowers and fruits when
,howers of grace descend upon it from heaven.
)ne world state is an open challenge to all the
19ly complexities of the world who, lIke
lOunding wolves of Modern Era, scent human
,lood and howl to skies.

~es

to their utmost to defeat one another in
he wrestling match of powerfulness.

"In human hIstory, it is often the days of
tribulation and deep despaIr that are the
,relude to a time of enlightenment. The scale
)f our distress is sufficient to prompt the quesion whether we have not, on the presumption
)f nationalism and pride of material achievements brought the world towards the verge of
mmhllation. We have followed false roads in
)lind confidence" (Dr. Radhakrishnan).
~reat

Bi~hteen

The freedom of an individual is always
increased and never diminished by his acting
accordingly to law as he can carryon hiS normal oblIgatIOns without having any fear as the
law is there to protect hIm. Can't the same
hold good in the case of nations also?
One world state may merely mean the exten..
sion of the present United Nations Organisation, gIving each natlOnal unit freedom to
fashion its destiny according to its genius but
subject always to the basic covenant of the

