world state The people having seen the
U. N. functIOning do not have very high hopes
but they forget that U. N. has got very limited powers. The five great powers with veto
at their command always dictate the U. N.
They are above all that the U. N. can do. But
one world state will be having no such distinctions. Before that, all nations will be
equal and with the supreme powers vested in
that, it will be able to administer justice without i1l-wiU, favour or affection.
H. G. Wells once remarked 'Indian community is a community of communities'. We
are managing our affairs in a very fine manner. To cite an instance, in a federation of
the world the various cuntries will more or
less be similar to various states in the Indian
Union. What I mean is reducing the various
states to the position of individual units in a
federation of states in which policing, peace
and order are federal subjects and in which
all states enjoy internal autonomy without the
authority or the means of aggression, econo..
mic, social or political. It will be a federal
Government with a ·unitary bias. But for all
this we will hav® to make the world Government a " properly representative and equitable
World Federation of Nations".
"What is a Nation? It is the aspect of a
whole peop Ie as an organised power. This
organisation incess antly keeps up the insistance of population at becoming strong and
efficient.' , When the humanity was not under
the Government of the organisation, the elasticity of change was great ennugh to encourage men of power to feel that they had their
destinies in their own hands. The same is true
of the powerful nations of the day. They too
must be organised and certain curbs imposed
upon their power.

H. G. Wells a great supporter of the World
Government conSIder it as the next stage of
history. He has written in his book entitled
"Outline of History" a lot in favour of one
world. " There can be little question that the
attainment of a federation of all humamty,
together with a sufficient measure of socia 1
justice, to ensure health, education, and
equality of opportunity to most of the
children born into the wor1d, would mean such
a release and increase of human energy as to
open a new phase in human history. The
enormous waste caused by military preparations and the mutual annoyance of competing
great powers and the still more enormous
waste due to the under-productiveness of
great masses of people either because they are
too wealthy for stimulus or too poor for
efficiency would cease ........To picture to
ourselves something of the wider life that
world unity would open to men is a very
attractive speculation. Life wiH certaInly go
with a stronger pulse) it will breathe a deeper
breath, because it will have dispelled and conquered a hundred infections of the body and
mind which now reduce it to invalIdism and
squalor."
In this moment of international crisis which
threatens peace and complete annihilation of
mankmd the banner of one world state can
alone stand aloft, as a beacon of hope to this
tottering world of today with its rich ideals of
peace and non- violence on which depends the
salvation of mankind. The greed of material
gain among nations will give way under its
policy of eternal peace and out of it will arise
a new creation and not a mere repetition,
offering as its own tribute to the world and to
the welfare of life. "Where Nations shall
not raise their swords against Nations neither
shall they learn any more of war."

