A Society Hero
M. K. SUfi.

I shall reflect upon a mischief monger and
He says that this world is transitory but
peculiar figure in a class of students.
believes in eating, drinking and being merry.
He can readily clasp a dagger to decide
Look at his responding to call 'Ye-e-S-S-Sirwhether Nuton is more beautiful than Madhu..
r-r' instead of 'Yes Sir', ·sleeping on the last
bala or Dev Anand is more gallant than Raj ..
bench generally screened from the professor's
Kapoor.
view by a regular row of beads.

He has his own definitions of things. e.g.
ponds cream he calls face polish and books
he calls as 'liberary prisoners' which are
released on bail occasionally. Student for him
is a cart overloaded with books. Men, he says
are beasts with reason and women beasts
without reason.

He is humorous and as such loved and
respected by all his mates. His reply to one of
his friends who was very much insistant on the
age of the girl to be married by hIm was that
he should marry two girls of 12 years eacb.

He is president of the 'Smagglers' whose
main aim is to spirit away lunch boxes from
His pronounciation is also .strange. Judg- lockers wIth his' master key' and serve those
ment is pronounced by him as judge - a - mi. who come without It.
nute and if you ask, he says judgments are
His is an adept in art of mimicrying and
hasty.
baskmg and If ever in any fu nction, you hear
After great research and micro ana1ysis, I such peculiar calls, you must at once know
have come to the conclusion that he is an that he is at work.
Atom Bomb, a terror for all. As he sings
songs, all crows and sparrows are scared away,
In some meeting or gathering, he is the first
such is the force of his musical and deep man to hoot the speaker and make the people
laugh by hIS awakward remarks and unneces·
voice.
sary comments. He feels highly elevated when
His 'Hello' nay cause young dames or
appreciated by his friends for jokes and misgentle beauties a heart failure. When he
chiefs he makes.
happens to descend a staircase, traffic is
stopped. He moves in such a way that stairs
He usually produces various theones, e. g.
cry with pain and agony. I would rather can man must not use automobiles but devIse
hIma ':Moving Earthquake'. For instance, when a system by which they can ride each other.
this little Earthquake enters laboratory, all
Being an important figure and pretty good
bearers remain on guard and when he touches
laughing
stock he has achieved the title S. H.
a library shelf, books fall from it like dead
, society hero' but not Specific Heat.
leaves.

Twenty

