ON HUMILITY
T.

GOPICHAND,

It is not my intention to give an exahaustive exposition on humility. To squeeze in
some thought provoking sensations regarding
humility, on the other hand might preserve
its beauty withont committing to serious definitions.

AU religions, without any exception proclaim' Do not do unto others, what you may
not like others to do unto yourself'. Reli ..
gions might differ in their creed, ritual or
even dogma, but unequivocally stick to the
above principle.

D. Se.

Pride is essential. It gives confidence to a
man. It is a stimtllii for pro15ress. But one
will know the value of a thing only when he
can sacrifice. Hence to be free from pride
ennobles a man. It is to be recognised that
humility is not a negation.

Man is a social being. If Science and Technology frees him from economic bondage,
the spiritual and religious attitudes heJp him
to be socially secure. HumilIty is the instinct
developed by humanity, in its conscientious
effort towards progress. By all means it
What is humility? Humbleness in spirit;
should be retained and nourished by huma..
freed0ID from pride. Both connote the hte.
nity.
ral meaning. But there is something more
when anybody uses it in daily life. It is in
Can it be practiced true to the spirit of the
this aspect it is more like truth, good etc.,
word? I am afraid humIlity is only an idea]
which can only be relatively adjudged.
standard with whIch we can compare our
Let me connect the biblIcal saying quoted actions now and then. If every action of ours
earlier and the literal meaning of humiltty is to be processed through the agony of conthrough an example. If rpy son in a playful temptation, we cease to be human beings.
mood sits under a table, puUs the table cloth Impulses good and bad shall dictate our
with the ibtention of hiding himself and in the actions. But now and then we should assess
process if the radio set comes down with a our action. There under the pavillion of
bang, my first impulse will be to catcb him by humility our debit and credit should be exathe shirt collar and to administer him a neat mined. We will be enlIghtened and ready for
thrashing. The impelling reasons are many
a second round. In short it makes a nice
and one of them IS that my pride is hurt. If feed-back mechanism.
I am free frBID pride (the wIsh to have the
behavIOur of an adult from the boy?) and
To be free from pride and to be humble in
If I put myself in the posItIon of the boy for
a while I will certamly act dIfferently. I might spirit is easily preached then practised. It is
even gulp down the financial loss and In all a habit to be acqUIred 'through contemplation,
sineenty Tadvise the boy to be careful even an impulse to be developed, a' goal never to
be reached. Neventheless, it is essential to be
wlule'.pl~ing~
aware of it. A saint might need it a number
The impulse' to put yourself in the place of times, a good man might need it once in a
of some other person' is the essence of humi .. year, but certainly every man will need it at
llty. The other side of the COlD is the biblical least once in a life time.
saying quoted earlier.

Twenty two

