OUR FIRST ACADEMIC YEAR
D. Venkateswarh.t, Ph. D.
On the ev~ of the Fust Institute Day on
April 25, 1960, it is appropriate to reeall
and record some of the significant events of
our first academic year.
Feur of the German experts and a few

other teachers joined the InstItute in May
1959. At this time the Institute comprised
of the C L R. I. Audltonum accommodat.
ing a handful of office stoff and an adJomtng
room for Sri L. S Chandrakant, Deputy
Edueahonal AdVIsor to the Goveniment of
IndIa, deputed to the Institute as Special
Offic"" for getting the I nstltute started.

Towards the end of May 1959, the

They said they would be' looking forward to
the results of our experiment in the 5 year
lntegratad (ourl5e as this again is the 6rst
Indian Institute to start the integrated enginterjng course· The framework adopted a\ this
Courses Committee meeting enabled us to
start the classes as scheduled and to c.ever
the courses as planned.

This was soon followed by the meetings
of the two Seledlon CommIttees for a week
for the selection of students on an all Ind.a
basis. At that time, Shri R. Na.tarajan,
I A.S joined ur as the Registrar.

DUiing the month of June 1959. there has
been actiVity regardmg the organisation of

academic staff shifted to the A C. College
of T echnolo~y where space has been brdly
allotted by Dr. G. S Ltldda, Director of t~e
Callege, far the Institute class [(lorn, tutorial
room, library, laboratory, workshop and !taff

the Departments, purchase of equipment.
apparatus, glas~ware etc. and setting up of
the two Hostels for the lodging and board ..
ing faclhties of the 120 students to be

rooms·

admitted.

Edrly

in June 1959, Dr. A. Lakshmana ..
Thanks to the cooperation of the office
sWdmi Mudahar, Chairman. Board of staff and supphers of the city, it had been
Governors of the InstItute, came personally possible to start c1a~ses on 22nd July 1959
and checked in detail all the arrangeme:nts and Hostels two days earlIer.
for startlVg the classes. The lliembffS of thf
The Hostels were inaugurated on 29th
shff had then the pnvdege of haVIng tea With
Jut~, 1959 by Shri L. S. Chandrakant.
Dr. f\1udaitar.
In hIS inaugural address, Shri Chandrakant
An important event 1n the orgamsation of
stressed on the Importance of hostel life in
the academIC work IS the first meeting of the
buddmg up the character and personahty of
Courses CommIttee on 9th Junel 1959 wlth
studenta and said that the c@mpulsory rt'si·
eminent englOeers from outsIde aAd teachers
dentlal aspect formed an integral part of
of Institute as men1bers. At this meeting, the
education and trainmg.
sand wieh system of training with academIC
July 3L 1959 Will always be remembered
and workshop weeks alternatmg was propos.
ed, dLscussed at great length and adopted~ The as a red letter day in the hi$tory of the
experts from outstde Wished our sandwlch inauguration of the Institute by Professor
system all su(,cess as ou S IS the only Institu- Humayun Kabir, Union Minister of SCIentific
tion in India to have thiS system of tralning. Research and Cultural Affauf.

