In the forenoon of the inauguration day,
the staff of the Institute had the honour of
meeting Professor Ka bir at tea and hearing
his views informally on a number of diverse
topics - h~cllnical education, research, recent
deve16pments in industrially advalced countries etc.
The distinguifhed speakers at the Institute
inauguration function were Shri Bishnuram
Medhi, • Governor of Madras, Dr- A.
Larshmanaswami Mudaliar, Shri C. Subra~aniam, Minister of Finance and Education,
Madras, and Herr von Heyden, West
German Charge de Affairs in Delhi, the
inaugural addreS5 being del,vered by Pro ..
fessor Kabir. Extracts of the speeches are
given elsewhere in this Magazine.

The month of August 1959, saw the
departure of Shri Chandrakant to New
Delhi to join bark his post in the MinIStry.
At the send off parties organised, the staff
and students expre5~ed their esteem and
.dmiration for Shri Chandrakant and their
appreciation of his services as Special Officer
for four significant months in the Institute.
The send off to Shri Chandrakant synchronis(d with the reception to Prof. B Sen
Gupto who joined us as the fiut DIrector,
with thirty years of expenence at the
Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute, Bombay.
The staff and students have found in hIm a
person who gives patient i;\nd symp3;thetlc
hearing and adv Ice on all academic matters
and extra curricular actiVities.

lerve on mets, literary, cultural Bnd sports
commIttees. The names of the Secretaries
and members of these committees are given
ei£ewhere 10 the Maga'line.

The secretaries organistd the dIfferent
activities, debates, quiz programrn~s. essay
competitions, indoor and outdoor games,
excursions etc. Many learned scholan have
addressed the students. All these events are
given in the Chronicle. The reports of the
!ecretaries are given in the Magazine.

The Annual Sports Meet held on
February 12. 1960 was a great success in
view of the large number of participants in
all events The names of winners of contests
in all fields are gwen in the Magazine.
OpportuOltles have been prOVided for the
students to hardle responsibilities in the
management of mess, sports and llrerary 8pd
cultural actiVities. The students undertook
the responsibilIties credlhblJ. This coni"
titutes an excellent training In responsIble
conduct and community service. It is hoped
that in the coming year the students will take
up more responsible organisational works
Another event of significance is the recer.t
viSit of Professor Sen Gupta to the Federal
RepublIc of Germanv In connectton ~ Ith the
future plannmg of the Institute.

April 25, 19S0 wIll be ~nother red letter
day in the hii\tcry of our lostltute, all it is the
first Imtltute Day ilt which Shn K Kamaraj,
Chief MlOlster, Madras 'A III be the Chief
Towards the end of July 1959, the Guest and Dr A. Larshmana~wamJ Muda.
students elected their own representatives to liar will preSide.

Twentysix

