"0 yes t tqere is" rephed the guard.

"In

this place you have got to

show improvement before you can get out ".

*

*

•

Patient: "What are the chances of my recovering, Doctor"
Doctor: "One hundred percent. Medical record! show that nine out 01
~very ten die of the disease you have. Yours is the tenth case
I have taken Others all died. Statistics are statis.tics· You
are bound to get \\ ell ".

•

*

*

A builder who was speaking in public for the first time said "I was unaccustomed to public speaking.

*

My proper place IS

on the scaffold:'

*

Druggist: If you will give this new tonic a trial,
never use an} other.

*

am sure yeu wIll

Customer ~ Excus~ me, I prefer something less fatal

*

•

•

If a man runs after money. he is money mad: if he keeps it he is capita"
list; if he spends it, he is playboy; If he does not get It, he is never-do .. well;
if hI:' does not try to get it, he lacks ambitIOn; and if he accumulates it after a
bfetime of hard work, people cail him a fool who never got anything out
oillfe.
- Exlracts.
DEFINITIONS IN LIGHTER VEIN
Advice -- Counsel old men give young men when they can no longer set
them a bad eXlmple.

A rermanent public temptation (Oscar ~llde)

Bachelor -

College - Museum of preserved brains.
DisciplIne - Something which can be learned during the first year at school
or the first year of marlled life.
Economist - Anybody who has a plan to do something with somebody
else's money,
Friends -

Penons who ~tick together until debt do them pan.

Genius - One percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration(Thomas A. Edison)
Happiness - Way station between too lIttle and too much (Pollock)
Idealist -

Or.e who helps the other fellow to be prosperous (Henry Ford)

Jury - A group of people of average ignorance (Spencer)
Knowledge - The or.Iy instrument of production that is not subject to dimi.
nishlllg returns
Lawyer .- A learned gentleman who rescues your property from your
enemieS and keeps II himself.
Twentyeight

