Vol. VII, No.3

liT Madras, February, 1969

The M. S. Programme
A long-awaited departure has been made
by our Institute from the routine curriculum
of post-graduate engineering education. In
January this year about fifty candidates in
various disciplines have enrolled in a programme that emphasises equally on lectures and
research. At first, the candidate's background
will be assessed and he will be instructed in
what he has not learnt in his under-graduate
course. His guide will follow his progress
closely, discuss his problems with him whenever possible. The student is thus oriented
with a research viewpoint at the master's level.
He will be in a better position to continue his
research after completing his master's degree.
The duration of the course may be a little
over two years and has not yet been rigidly
fixed. The evaluation of the students of this
programme by the conventional examination
methods is 'not considered necessary in many
circles.
The main objective of the programme is to
Create an effective research activity especially
as an inter-disciplinary effort. It will be
possible for an M.Sc. in Physics, for example,
to work on a research problem in an engineering department like Metallurgy or Electrical
Engg. j an M.Sc. in Maths may work in
Aeronautical; an M.Sc. in Chemistry may
work in Metallurgy or Chemical Engineering.
It is expected that by far the largest number
of the research workers here will be eng~neer­
jng graduates with a Bachelor's degree. It
is also expected that a considerably increased
number of faculty members will be drawn
into and get involved in the research activities
,
of the Institute.
It is to be seen whether this novel experiment will justify the need for a separate
course for those with an aptitude for research
and whether the students will benefit by feeling
the pulse of practical problems side by side
with routine academic work.

-Campastim8S N8WS.

Jl)r ::S~c~tloff
returns to <b~rmanr
Dr Ing BechtIoff left the Institute for
Germany in January. During his 18 months
$tay here he has succeeded in setting up the
Machine Elements and Mechanical Handling
Laboratory (they shifted into their new
building on the 16th Jan.). The Lab. will
be complete by July-August. According to
Dr Bechtloff, the main reason for the low
efficiencies in factories he had visited in India
-is that there are too many employees doing
no work and even discouraging others from
working.
'Some of our staff members have never
been to the industries even in and around the
Madras city. That is why they are unable to
teach with a practical viewpoint. Knowing
what it is to work under the conditions of
industry is a must for every member of the
staff.'

-Campastimes News.

25 P.

DEUTSCHLAND S,PIEGEL
from
Dr. N. V. C.

SWAMY

Goethl/J81z .
WHAT strikes one foremost in the Germany of today is the sense of prosperity and
well-being. But for the inevitable student riots and demonstrations, the country
is, by and large, peaceful and the common man (and, of course, woman) is
experiencing a sense of contentment.
Eamings are good, things are available in
plenty and the Deutsche Mark is the most
powerful currency in the world today. The
shady parts of life are also there, especially in
the big cities, but they are not due to
poverty or lack of material comfort; on the
contrary, possibly due to an overdose of
material prosperity. I refer, of course, to
the usual share of robberies, murders
etc., which ate a part and parcel of hig
city life anywhere in the world ~oday.
If we disregard such exotic and shady
characters, who make headlines in newspapers
like • Bild '. and confine our attention to
the ordinary German, interested in his
health and home, what strikes one as parti~
cularly singular is a sense of non-involvement
in the day to day political affairs. One misses
here, ,happily I suppose, the early morning
post-mortem of daily affairs, statements by
politicians and so on, which usually heralds
in the· day of an Indian intellectual. It may
be due to a feeling that the people at the
helm of affairs are doing a good job or it may
also be due to a confidence ill the structure
of the nation, which no political party can
bring down, however incompetent it may be.
All of us have heard said, time and again,
that Germany is a nation of hard workers.
I would only add to that statement that
Germany is a nation of hard competent
workers. The system of Education and
training, especially in non-academic fields,
is such that no one can hope to get a good
job or earn a good name in any enterprise,
unless he or she is well-trained for it.
Strangely enough, it is the academic system
which is now the butt of enormous criticism,
and the recent student riots and demonstrations are directed at the system of education
and training in the academic fields. Goetingen
as one of the oldest and famous Universities
in Germany, is not without its share of
student unrest. It is, of course, difficult to
digest all the demands of the students,
especially when they want to have a say
in the selection and appointment of their
teachers, but at least they feel justified,
when they rebel against the take-it-or-leave-it
attitude in which lectures are given and the
ivory towers inhabited by the Professors.
The students' demand a more liberal attitude
on the part of their teachers and a closer
link with their Professors. But it is a pity
that, just as in Indian Universities, the
students exhibit a lack of propriety and have
no sense of cohesion or discipline. The
citizens of Goetingen were shocked one fine
morning to read a pamphlet, directed against
the University authorities. ex~ibited all over
the city, couched in obscene language and
entirely devoid of purpose and meaning.
Even though the Students' Union, AStA.

promptly denied the magnum opus as being
the work of a student, the damage had been
done and the stock of the students' agitation
plunged in the eyes of the populace. The
only saving grace about the agitation is that,
there are no demonstrations ·01' riots, but the
poor trees have to bear the brunt of the
arguments and counter arguments, which are
pasted on them indiscriminately.
I was pleasantly surprised one day. when
I was stopped in the street by a German,
whom I did not know, and who complimented
our nation on having Mrs. Gandhi as our PM I
He told me that she mus); indeed be a very
clever woman to have- survived in that seat
for such a long time. Incidentally, a point, on
which the Germans pride themselves, is their
racial tolerance. There is a creeping resentment. especially in South Germany
against Turks, Italians and Greeks, who a~
filtering in ever larger numbers to seek jobs. ,
There is, of course, a great deal of sympathy
for Israelis in their conflict with the Arabs.
Finally, a word about how we are in
touch with affairs in India. Our only means .
of communication is AIR-General Overseas
Ser!ice. .We are, i~deed. ve~y fortultate in
havmg thts extraordinary serVice, which tells
us in detail a)Jout the daily routines of (in that
order) the President, the Prime Minister and
the Deputy 'Prime Minister (followed by the
lesser Deities). Sometimes we are told how
Coffee Or Sugar is grown, or what India
feels about the Commonwealth and the
Israel-Arab conflict, or about the award of a
D. Litt to the Empress of Iran. About the
conditions iri the country itself, about student
troubles, closure of colleges and universities
floods, famines etc., the AIR is mum. Of
course, one canIlot blame the AIR, since
there are always other sources like the local
Press or BBe for that matter. N(1 wonder,
people here sometimes have a distorted view
of things in India.
A word .to . our guitar-tw~nging groups.
The latest Slngmg craze here m Germany is a
Iz-year old boy called Heintje (who is a Dutch),
who really happens to be 'the darling of
millions'. In z yeat·s, his records have sold
more than 10 million. He is only worried
now as to what will happen to him, when his
voice breaks I

MINI SKYSCRAPER OCCUPIED
In December 1968, when the students were
happily off on vac.ation, the various administrativesectiolls of the Institute peacefully drifted
into the .multistoreyed complex next of
Gajendra Circle.
Perched on the fifth floor, the Director now
has everything under view.

-Ca11lpasti-mes News.

