February. 1969]
CARICATURE

Rathindra 'N' Roy

About two hours after the yonder sun has
risen over the Bay of Bengal, Roy walks into
the Ganga mess for breakfast and the waiter
asks him what he would have. ' Ten
-oothappams from the veg. side and four eggs
and the usual from the non-veg. side,' he
says, and gets ready to tuck into his rations.
Tapeworms raise their hats, watching Roy
eat, knowing that they are in the presence of
a master.
.
Watching him class-wards bound, dressed
in terycotton trousers and a T-shirt made to
-order by Omar the tent-maker, one gets ~he
impression that Nature must have started w1th
enough material for two Roys, but deci~ed !o
put everything into one and be done w1th 1t.
In other words he resembles, rather closely,
a Roman Emperor who is· exceptionally fond
of starchy foods.
Roy started the rise to fame with an incident
in the third year. He walked into the first
year class and looked not left nor right till
he was standing in front of the two girls who
lend colour to the class. Then pulling out
with a flourish a visiting card bearing the
legend R. N. RoY, Faculty of Electrical
Engilleerillg, The Irldiall /tzstitute of Techtlology,
Madras and trying to look as much like Sean
Connery as he possibly could, he presented it
to them and solicited an article for Campostimes. Legends say that an article was
handed over, but in what finally appeared in
print Roy used only the title at the top and
the authors' names at the bottom, and let his
imagination run wild in between.
Roy's proudest possession is a badge from
the Institute of Electrical Engineers. The
time you have three or four days to spare,
.drop in on him and ask him about it.
Delving into the depths of psychology he
:says: (I will quote him verbatim) • I a,?
basically anti-feminine'. I am ~ure that th1S
is something he thought up to dIsh out to the
'press, if he ever becomes famous enough to
hold press conferences, for I am told that

CAMPASTI MES
his idea of the ultimate in beauty, is a girl who
lets her hair loose, so that it cascades rartly
to this side and partly to that side a her
shoulders. Though this may not be the most
convenient coiffure to sport while drinking
coffee and things, interested girls please note
that this is the one way ticket to Roy's heart.
Both Bill Shakespeare and Alex Pope have
stressed the tediousness of a twice told tale.
You will agree that what is good enough for
Bill and Alex is good enough for us. Not this
Roy. Tell him anything, and three days
later he drops in on you and says, ' You
won't believe me, but there was this •••••
and you hear your masterpiece, slightly
spiced, and expanded as only Roy knows how
to. The next day he comes up again with,
'This is absolutely first hand •••.• ' and
you hear it all over again. I am at a loss,
for both Bill and Alex are silent about the
nature of a thrice told tale. (It is the same
thing recommending a movie to him. He
comes back and tells you the story and his
wisecracks about it, the whole of which lasts
slightly longer than the movie itself) If the
story is not one that you started, and you
are hearing it for the first time from Roy, it
it is advised that you know the value of the
Roy Factor. Under normal cJnditions one
takes the cube root.
You can be resonably sure that Roy will not
win any seaside beauty contest or appear for
the cover photograph of True Roma11ce, but
he is the best actor to have graced our stage.
He won the best actor award a couple of
years ago and has since been our top ellter~
tainer. He holds the record for never putting
up a flop show! Today it is his modest boast
that he can top anything any actor anywhere
does, except maybe for Gina Lollobrigida,
because of a slight disadvantage, figure-wise.
Watching Roy v.'llik towards you, you know
what Muhammed will have to put up, if he
refuses to go to the mountain.
In this the age of the Diners Club, it was
Roy who brought the credit-card system to
our Institute. We also can't blame the Knick
Knack chaps for rolling down the shutters and
escaping through the backdoor, when they hear
rumours about a visit from Roy. Roy enters
the joint with friends and eats like one
straight from drought-ridden Bihar. Draining
the last dreg of coffee down the hatchet, he
vells, • Waiter 1 the bill !!' The waiter wonders
if he is perhaps going to receive a 15% tip.
When the bill is presented, Roy breaks the
news, I No moolah now, chappie-O. Just
add it on as credit I '
Roy has been closely connected with Campastimes. This year he is an editor of the
Gymkhana Brochure. In the strictest confi~
dence (just between you and me) I will reveal
that it is he who writes under the pseudonym
of I Spyglass'. Why spyglass? Haven't 0e
faintest idea. Could be something to do wlth
Freudian Symbolism may be and aU that sort
of thing.
Roy knows the latest developments in
science and technology and medicine and
art and fashions, and gives uninvited lectures
on them. Not very authentic, but very entertaining. I mean, you can't have everything,
you know. Not everyone can pack so many
laughs in a gas session on bionics, Okay?
Roy is known this side of the deer park as
C the invitation card man.'
He has a knack
for the design and layout of invitations. 'It
is a delicate art requiring mild passion,' he
is going to say one of these days. Next time
you want someone to design a card for you,
at a moderate rate, drop in on him.
When you drop in, be prepared. He believes in the ultimate in informality. To
your knock will come sounds from within
like a couple of bulldozers beiug started, a
few words of endearing invitations to come
in, which we dare not print. and finally the
door is thrown open and Roy stands there
in all his majestic splendour, not hampered
by clothes and things. I don't mean that he
is entirely in the altogether, but, well, almost.
Roy was once going by bus and it being the
rush hour, he hadn't got a couple of seats to
park himself. He was however in a happy
mood. Suddenly in a lusty voice he started
singing his version of I I Love Paris'
right there. A throat specialist who had
taken the same bus, Ioolted up sharply,
scenting custom. The conductor, however,

3
stopped the bus, walked over to Roy and
said, • Mister I Either there is the song no,
or the mister there is no.' So for the rest of
the journey the copassengers needed no
earmuffs.

It happened at a girl's College not too far
from here, and probably the whole incident is
still listed in Roy's memory under the heading
'Incident, extraordinary, one of.' A certain
girl, I believe, contacted Roy on the talking
machine onc ,-day and, after the usual chit
chat, asked him over to their college for tea
the next evening. It was in honour of the
elite of the town, Roy was given to understand. The next day, Roy turned up there
with a few friends (let's not drag in their
names too) all shaved, spruced and boy-Ohboy, dressed to deal out instant death. Surprise, smprise, there was no reception committee at the portals of the college. OUl'"
heroes are made of sterner stuff and do not
give in easily. So they strolled in. They
walked and walked, stories go, and it was only
when they were in the middle of some SOl't of
a quadrangle that it started. It was a shrill
whistle. Soon there were many whistles.
Soon yells were heard and later even jeers.
You know what I meanwhis#es to the left of them
yelli~~g to the 1'ight of them
jeers uehbld themIt was the saddest retreat since Napoleon
returned from Moscow, I am told. But then
there is infinite wisdom in what they say about
it; • It is better to have gone for tea and not
having got it, t~an never to have gone at all.'
Roy's sense of humour is absolutely topping. He starts where Bob Hope left off.
He can turn a dead serious vernacular movie
into a super colossal comedy with his running
commentary.
When Roy passes out, he just wants to do
farming, join the Theosophical Society, take
a few loans from the leading banks of the US,
get a job in Latin America, study management in India, and bionics either in lst'ael or
Netherlands, and start an Industry by himself.
That's what I like about him-no crazyambitions.
GOPE.

'Leper '-(C011ti1lued)
disbelief. He did not know how to tell his
patient that he had been the victim of a
dreadful mistake, because the disease from
which he suffered was definitely 1Wt leprosy !
Although super.ficially akin to it, his disease
was
pathologically
entirely
different.
Shankaran sat stupefied. He did not hear
the doctor explain comfortingly that his
ailment could be cured in spite of its obscure
nature and the advanced stage of its development. The words • you are not a leper'
pounded relentlessly on his brain. The
consequences, or what he thought would be
the consequences of this r~velation flashed
through his badly-shaken mllld. He would
go home claiming to he suffering from a
curable skin-disease j the villagers would look
at his disfigured body and whisper in frightened voices that the leper had become insane.
Doubly damned as a leprous lunatic, he
would be forced back into the haunted
house, there to decay in terrifying isolation
into the likeness of a putrefied vegetable.
When Shanl{aro.n left the hospital, he was
smiling vacuoup'ly. It was twilight and t!le
rain had still not stopped. From afar a girl
approached carrying a bottle of kerosene and
holding a palm-leaf umbrella. Shankarall
stood squarely in her path. As she neared,
he pressed his P!'llms together and bent low in
respectful greet~g.. The girl sm~led ul'lce!tninly and made as if to pass. Wlth a shnll
scream of rage he snatched the umbrella from
her. For a few moments he stood inspecting
it with minute care. Then methodica1ly he
broke it into fragments. The girl stood
petrified with terror, her mouth open. From
her unresisting hand Shankar an took the
bottle. With the solemnity of a priest perM
forming puja he emptied the kerosene over
her head. Next, gripping the bottle tightly
he crashed it down with all his might. Then
smiling at the inert form on the road,
Shankaran staggered into the night.

S. R.

NAIR.

