4

CAMPASTIMES

A PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT
.JT0~ days. the cla~s ?ad been looking forward to the arrival of the new lecturer with

, increasmg CUflOSlty. How vulnerable he would be to proxies and how liberal he
would be with the S's were the object of endless speculation. How well he would be
able to teach didn't seem to bother anyone. Why worry unnecessarily when exccllent
text~books are available? In the meanwhile, a few incurable optimists kept alive the
hope that the lecturer would not be a 'he' as everyone else seemed to assume.

"HEN eventually the lecturer did arrive,
he turned out to be an unspectacular
person. Although he had submitted his
doctoral thesis, (the mere title of which ran
to a page and a half), he was very young and
possessed absolutely no teaching experience.

during the last hour on a Saturday morning
and soon a chant of 'let us off', • free period' ,
'let us off for once' begins. The lecturer
half turns and begins a futile sermon but
suddenly the duster slips from his fingers
and falls on the dais with a clatter only IlT's

[February, 1969
to say is dro,wned in cries of ' Cheap, cheap,
cheeeep ....
At last t~e 'lecture' proper begins with
the lecturer Itaking up his text-book. Prior
to starting his copying exercise, he asks,
'Any doubts on what we did last .. .'
A few chronic latecomers straggle in.
C Why are you so late? '
'Went to drink water, Sir.'
• You took twenty minutes to drink
water? '
, The cooler broke down, Sir.'
< Alright, alright, sit down.
This is the
last time I shall tolerate this. No'w, any
doubts on what we did last time? •
Someone in the back of the class closes a
9oo -page American best-seller on his lap and
stands uP.
'What are the portions for Wednesday's
periodical sir?' he asks.
'With the smoothness of an old truck
travelling over a badly dan:aged mud-road
the period bumps and jolts to a premature
end. In impotent rage the lecturel" leaves ten
minutes before time.
Perhaps he doesn't realize it, but in a week
or two, when the novelty has worn off he
wiII happily cease to be the object of any
special 'attention'. What he is going through
now is merely a passing phase, a transitory
period of adjustment.
-So R. NAIR.

HUCK FINN'S ITCu.
It was his misfortune to be assigned two
among the most difficult periods of the
week-the hour after lunch 011 Friday and
the last hour on Saturday morning. Not
everyone can hold the wandering attention of
a class in either of these hours; and it soon
became apparent that the new lecturer was
not one of these gifted few. Although no one
expected him to lecture like Feynman or
C. V. Raman, his method of teaching was
incompetent even for a novice. It consisted
solely of transcribing disconnected paragraphs
from a text-book onto the board. It was a
method calcuIated ta incite a class of mum~
mies to riot. A typical period would go
something like this-It is the class on Saturday. The strain of
the morning's periodical and the antkipation
of the longed-for weekend have combined to
produce in the class a mood of extreme restlessness. The excruciatingly dull double.
hour lecture just over has done nothing to
improve matters. To top it all the new
lecturer comes into the room mercilessly on
tim~ with a terrifying handful of chalkpieces. Ignoring him half of the class walk
out to the verandah for a breath of air.
Those remaining inside are in vurious attitudes of relaxation-yawning,· talking, or
throwing about bits of chalk. One or two
hopefuls who were on their way to the board,
where they intended to write • LET US
OFF' in multi-colour, veer off course and
leave the room on seeing the lecturer enter.
The latter is already annoyed. He raps on the
table with his duster and shouts,
• Silence, settle down, silence I •
In response to this a noise like steam
escaping from a boiler is heard from V'arious
parts of the room,
• Shhhh, shhhh, shhhhhhhh ....•. '
Evidently the class is helping him achieve
silence. The lecturer is taken aback but concealing his surprise says,
'Stop it, don't behave like children.
Silence!
But as steam continues to escape furiously,
he wisely decides to clean the board and
give the class some time to settle down. He
turns and begins at one end of his legacy-a
board crammed to the last square micron
with calculations, derivations and figures.
'But only ascetics can sit passiV'eIy in class

dusters can make. Instantly the class expresses its 'sympathy' at this misfortune in
a wave of sounds. Predictably enough the
lecturer is not comforted. He glares at the
class. If looks could kill, the room would
have been strewn with corpses.
Now the lecturer begins to take the
attendance. Somebody has obviously been
giving him a few tips; he begins as though
he has just recovered from .... major throat
operation.
• Aaron, Benjamin, Chandran •.. ', he
whispers.
But the little trick fails. Perfect silence
does not descend. Instead a voice rises in
protest,
• Can't hear, louder please.'
The unconventional pronunciation trigge.rs
an explosion of laughter and the young
lecturer blushes to the roots of his closecropped hair. He says,
'Who said that? Stand up I Stand up at
once I'
'Who said what, Sir?' asks someone
innocently.
The lecturer knows when he is beaten.
Grimly he returns to the roll-call. 'Krishnan,
Kumar, Mukundan ••. '
Variations of the basic • Yes, Sir.' follow
one another from different parts of the room:
• A, Sir/ I Es, Saar,' 'Yessir' and so on.
Then suddenly itl answer to 'Narayanan',
two voices are heard loud and clear. The
lecturer is infuriated. With deliberate calm
he closes the attendance-register and faces
the class with an expression that would have
done credit to a screen-villain.
'Gentlemen,' he says in a voice ddpping
sarcasm, 'as a reward for your excellent be~
haviour each one of you will lose his
attendance for this entire week.' His gaze
sweeps witheringly over the absolutely indifferent class. • Before I proceed with this
lecture I want those two .•. gentlemen who
gave proxy for Narayanan to stand up!
He pauses expectantly, the personification
of severity. A dozen pairs of feet shuffie and
scrape under the desks, but no one gets up.
At the end of a minute the lecturer is still
the only person standing. 'If those culprits
do not stand up, keep in mind that I can set
periodicals in which not one of you wiII pass.
Remember ... ' But the rest of what he has

'\Ve went tiptoeing along a path ....•.•
when we was passing by the Kitchen, I fell
over a root and made a noise. Miss Watson's
big nigger, named Jim he came tiptoeing dm"li
and stood dght between us; we could • a '
touched him, nearly. Well, likely it was
minutes that there wasn't a sound We all there
so close together. There was II place on my
ankle that got to itching, but I dasn't scratch
it ; and then my ear that begun to itch j and
next my baFk, right between my shoulders
seemed like 1'd die if I couldn't scratch.
Well, I've notice that thing plenty times
since •.• if you are anywhere where it don't do
for you to scratch, why you will itch all over
upward in a thousand places .......• My
nose began to itch. It hcB:ed tiU the tears
come into my eyes. But I dasn't scratch.
Then it began to itch on the inside. Next I
~ot to itching underneath ..... I was itching
1ll eleven different places now.
I l'eckon'd 1
couldn't stand it more'n a minute longer ....•.• Just then Jim begun to breathe
heavily; next he begun to snore-and then
I was pretty comfortable again " writes Huck~
leberry Finn, of this misery the night he and
Tom Sawyer founded' Tom Sawyer's gang'.
Well, it is something universally observed.
To modify Huck's statement, ' if you are any"
wheres where it won't do for you to do something, why you will itch to do that a thousand
times !'
It is 10.$8 a.m. Jan. 30; the school-bell
goes and tlie whole class stands up to observe
two minute~' silence. Everyone is quiet and
the very air seems to stand still. Then-Huck
Finn's itch begins to show up, and curiously,
you feel an impelling desire to burst out
laughing. But you resist it. 30 seconds passand then suddenly from the far corner of the
room a curious sound, like the one you occa~
sionally hear from I the star that hauls a
fortu.ne '-the TMB truck; you cautiously
turn round to see one little fellow trying un~
successfully to prevent 'the bursting of his
thought as Maharishi Mahesh Yogi would
have called it. An uneasy stir follows and
then another chap bursts out; and
then another; and still another. You glance
at the schoolmaster whose face is red with
anger, or probably by the very effort he makes
to prevent' the burshing of his thoughts. And
then to everyone's relief the beU rings again
and all is quiet again. Well, why is it that
this happens? Is it that the subconscious is
rebelling against the conscious which tries to
concentrate on the observance of silence I

