For, if you think about it, there appears to be
no reason for your laughter or for that matter.
Huck Finn's itch. AU the same, there they
are-haunting you. In his autobiography,
Nehru observes that sometimes he had an
impish urge to burst out laughing or dance
or do something of the sort on same solemn
political meetings.
All these seem to be different manifestations
of some fundamental • law'. something akin
to the famous Fertridge's law of Frustration.
Fertridge, it appears, was once trying to photograph a swarm of migrating birds, which
every year flew over a particular place on a
precise date. No,v, Fertridge arrived on that
day with aU the paraphernalia, only to be
frustrated, for that particular year they had
flown by a day earlier, for some reason unknown. Then it was, that Fertridge enunciated his law of frustration. The law seems to
have universal application. at all places and on
all occasions.
Suppose you want to go by bus to a particular place, and there are two routes, traversed
by two buses A, B. Now Suppose that you
are waiting where the stops of A and B are a
few yards apart and you are waiting for A,
knowing it to be roore frequent. But while
you wait, no A appears but two B's have. already passed along. So you think, better
wait for B; they appear to be more frequent.
Hence you begin walking to stop B, and at the
very precise moment you reach halfway
through and can't catch A even if you run,
what happens? Lo, there comes A and you
are left with neither fish nor flesh.
N ow suppose further that you finally reach
home exhausted and are relaxing in your room,
casually peeling and eating an orange. You
are sitting, away from the open window, and
you reckon, if I throw the pips out through
the window from here, the probability for
the pips to hit the bars and get bounced
back into the room is very small. So you
begin throwing them out one by one and
wh~t happens? Nine out of ten pips hit
the bars and bounce back and in no time, the
room is littered with orange pips, well, if you
haven't observed it yet, don't bring the
oranges to OAT next Saturday, but take
them to your room and try.
Have you ever kept something, say a pair
of scissiors, at a spot where you could find
it when you wanted, and when you really
needed it, forgotten where you I,ept it?
Have you ever lost a fountain pen, and after
a vain search, bought a new one, only to find
the old one gleaming right on your table?
Have you ever mastered a card trick, practised
it a dozen times successfully, but when you
invited your friend to see it, it failed to click?
In all probability, you have experienced such
an ignominious fate; and if you have, well,
Fertridge is somewhere around. There is a
story about Sir J. C. Bose; he took some of
his ingenious inventions to the Royal Society
for demonstration but they didn't work before
the distinguished gathering, yet they had
worked earlier, and did work later! Well,
who knows how many of our friends at the
Science Fair had had a similar experience?
Is it some sort of curious twist given to
our lives by some inexorable, invisible hands,
say Little Green Men (LGM) to 'tease us for
their sport' as some superstitious person
would believe 1. or is it some psychic phenomenon, the result of the thoughts of a fertile
imagination? Or is it some sort of 'Mirage'
rooted in the belief that some unseen force
is constantly working against us, to upset
whatever we wish and hope? It would be
that in the case of Lost Fountain Pen, the
Search for it is governed largely by a mind
already prejudiced; a belief that something
which is lost cannot ever be on an obvious
-spot. One might point out that C Huck Finn's
Itch' is something which is there always,
which becomes eclipsed when the mind is
automatically focussed on something i but when
you deliberately try to concentrate your
thoughts, well, the mind's safety valve opens
up, preventing the brain from embarking on
-such a disastrous step. But somehow, one
-cannot help thinking that there might be
some impervious and mysterious laws like
the Fertridge's Law that want some unraveling I

V.
2

5

CAMPASTIME.S

February, 1969]

JAGADEESH.

Dr. Zuern's Vacation Contest-Result
FIRST PRIZE: Mr P. Venugopalachari

REG/STRARSUNTERSCHRIFTENMASCHINE
MACHINE FOR PUTTING REGISTRARS SIGNATURE.

Vijay was a big executive now. He was the
managing director of Vijay Industries, a firm
that made everything from lathes to electronic
computers. Right now he sat in his office
pondering over the implications of the new
wealth tax. A frown of concentration creased
his brow as he considered how best he could
find loopholes within the law and save some
money. There was a knock on his door and
with a wave of irritation Vijay shouted,
• Come in! I
Five men shuffled in through the door. They
were rough workmen, and at present they
appeared nervous and ill at ease. 'Well,'
snapped Vijay, 'what do you want?' The
spokeman cleared his throat and said 'Sahib,
our well keeps breaking down. Would you
be kind enough to give us ten bags of cement
to repair it?' Vijay was intensely annoyed.
e What do you think I am doing here>, he
shouted, • running a cement shop? All you
people are the s~me. You do no work and
then want something for nothing. You don't
need the well and even if I gave you the
cement, ten bags is too much. Get out I '
The men didn't have the heart to argue.
Their shoulders drooped a little more, C Yes
Sahib' , they said and shuffled out. Some
thing about the way these men moved out
struck a chord in Vijay's mind, his thoughts
flew back .......•

*

•

•

.••... He was just a little boy playing
marbles in h!s grandfather's compound. Five
men trooped out, they looked pretty dejected.
I wonder what they are so ·sad about, he
thought as he carefully took aim and shot the
marble-oh no! another miss: he gave up
in disgust.
The men had moved over to the watchman's

hut and were sitting down in a circle. He
walked up to them boldly and· demanded,
• Who are you?' • We are maistrys, young
Sahib,' said a gentle old man with grey hair
and bushy whiskers. • What do you want
here?' was the next question. 'We need
planks of wood' came the gentle reply. C We
need them to repair our houses which are
falling doiyn. We have no money to buy
them from the market.' Vijay thought this
over for a few moments and then said in
a grave and earnest tone, • Everyone must
have houses to live in. Give me a piece of
paper. I will give you enough wood,'
A grubby piece of paper appeared from the
watchman's pocket and with it an old pen. The
foreman wrote down his requirements; a
hundred planks of teak wood. Vijay bent
down to apply himself to the complicated and
labourous task of signing his name to the piece
of paper. Suddenly there was a tense silence,
as the stern figure of his grandfather loomed
up. I What are you doing, Vijay?' Vijay
held out an ink smudged scrap. • I have given
these men hundred planks of wood to make
their homes. See, I can even sign my name:
said Vijay'with quiet pride.
Grandfather looked at the dirty paper with
a scrawly' Vijay' written upside down in blots
of ink. His face hardened as he looked at the
men. Suddenly there was a twinkle in those
grey eyes as they softened towards Vijay.
'Well son; you've just signed yourfirst·order I'
He turneq' to the men and said, • Since my
son has signed, I am bound to give you these
things. He has made an early start and you
can see everything will go well in rus
hands .•.... '
The picture faded. Vijay pressed the inter"
com and s~id to his P.A., 'Ram Nath, give
those men what they want.'
Mter all one must be kind.
-UMESH DA'l'TA.

