[February, f 96"9

CAMPASTIMES

6

------------"--------------------------------------------------~-----------------

Branching story

The Devil's WorRshop
, THESE days they put all kinds of rubbish in these thingsl ' complained Screwy as he laid down his illustrated paper and stared morosely
out of the window at the ragged vegetation floating by. A train journey wasn't exactly his idea of a day well spent. He said 80 • ••
Baggy grunted and drifted back into his semi-doze. Pops didn't stir from his apathetic slouch. Emkay made an effort to lllJect sarcasm
.
into his tone. • If you want excitement, just dive through that window. Please. Now:
Screwy ignored him. t Those dames in the next bay,' he mused, • they look as if they could do with some lIvely company.
I wonder ••• '
Pops looked interested. f Yes l' What do you suggest, Casanova r '
'Invite them to join us in a game of cards?' Emkay's habitual sarcasm was absent.
Baggy woke up and blinked owlishly at them. • Hwat ?'
Screwy shook his head. • Something better than that... That bh'd in blue, now. She's .•. hmmm .•• •
Emkay's eyebrows danced devilishly. • Why don't you propose to her? That would satisfy your ego.'
Screwy was taken aback. ' Serious? •
(I defy you.'

Possibility

,I

Possibility

I

would land myself in a mess,' thought

Screwy as he left his seat. He had his
reputation to maintain... he wondered
whether it was worth maintaining at such
costs. ~ You guys stay here,' he instructed.
• Then how'Il we know?' objected Emkay,
'Ask her.' They didn't have any answer
to that.
.
Two steps and he was looking down at the
girls. A couple of them were reading books,
a couple seemed to be dozing, and the bird
in blue was looking steadily at him. His
glance caught hers in something of a shock.
He realized. vague1y and inarticulately, why
she had attracted his attention in the first
place. He'd seen her somewhere before ..•
but where? how? when?
Her eyes went down modestly, and he "
realized he'd been staring rudely. He cleared
his throat.
She spoke first, and her words left him
gasping. • I was beginning to wonder if you
had recognis~d me at all. How's your sister,
Raju? •
; Screwy knew who she was. And he got an
IDEA.
Screwy stalked back to his seat and very
solemnly, sat down.

'We111?? '

f I did it.
I've proposed to her. And the
young lady wants to meet you personally to
tell you what she thinks of you, Emkay/
c Thinks of me ? Hey, what's aU this? •• "
Screwy looked past Emkay and said, I Oh
Geethat this is Emkay. Emkay, the bird in
blue.'
"Emkay swivelled round to face her. bewilder~
mentshowing plainly on his comically distorted
features. Her eyes, steely glints in their
liquid brown depths, gazed quizzically at him.
Emkay's uncomfortable glance skittered away
from the pretty face and encountered others
set in various degrees of feminine disapproval.
A feeling crept upon Emkay that somethi.I!g
had gone wrong somewhere.
She spoke; her voice was pleasant, but to
Emkay it held a suggestion of an electric
hotplate. C Aren't you ashamed of yourself r
How can you look at anyone in the face after
this r Just look at him, everyone t'
Everyone obligingly looked at the crushed
Emkay. His composure started looking like
the Roman Empire after the Decline and Fall.
He shifted uneasily. 'Er •.. I say ••• wha
••• (gulp) I'
Screwy took a hand. f Ye gods! Have you
no self-respect, man? Apologise to her, dash it. »
Emkay seemed to find something hypnotic
sorry.
about the toecaF~ of his ~hoes.
••• er, I apologtse •.• I m not ...
He was interrupted by peals of feminine
laughter. Screwy's raucous har-har-har

'r.m

~

Possibility 3

SCREWY walked towards her. The others
perched themselves at strategic points.
He reached her. Matters came to a standstill after that. It looked as if he was stuck
for a beginning. The other girls watched
curiously. Just when the silence was getting
awkward, he spoke. • Will you marry me ? '
The gasp from the other girls was expected.
His friends tensed as they prepared themselves
for het reaction." She looked up. Another
silence developed as she valiantly tried to
recover from the impact of that question.
Screwy's sense of the artistic prompted him
to launch into an eloquent description of his
yearnings for her. Only. he was afraid of
being too convincing. Again, the silence was
getting on his nerves, although it hadn't
lasted for more than a few ticks. He was
becoming self-conscious, standing there in the
midst of five girls. Then it happened. He
saw her lips move . • • •
.
(No, sweetheart.'
The tension eased all round. Screwy
mopped his face with a handkerchief.
, The name is Screwy.'
C So's mine.'
Screwy didn't bother to correct hel'.
Instead, he mumbled on about this and
that ••••• and she listened intently. She
laughed at something he said. Obviously
she found his conversation engaging. Emkay
looked bored and disappointed. He didn't
mind losing the wager, but sorely missed the
fireworks he had expected. Screwy had
found a new friend, who was obviously a
goner for him. But that was nothing exciting.
Screwy had a ku<\ck of collecting goners.
Emkay got an IDEA. He hopped down
and walked over to Baggy. Surprisingly
enough, Baggy seemed to be awake. • Bet
you can't walk over to the other 'un and
smooch her,' he challenged, conjuring up
mental vis.ions of what would. happen to
Baggy should he do any such thing.
But Baggy's reaction wasn't at all what he
expected. • Are you serious l '
Emkay pondered over this. He came up
with a better idea. 'You do the defying and
I'll do the smooching.'
, Sure.'
-AAJOO.

brought Emleay back to himself with a snap.
, You hound,' he howled, what have you
done? •
Screwy bubbled over with glee. 'Proposed
to her on your behalf I [ Ye gods, and she
accepted "
-POOTS.

As

Screwy lurched to his feet and very,
very casually walked along the corridor,
his brain was racing. Here it might be
mentioned that Screwy is one of the multitude for whose consumption Hollywood •B I
movies are ground out. Hence, even though
it was an Errol Flynnish swagger that he
finished up with, it was Edward G. Robinson
who spoke out of one corner (the one which
did not hold the Charminar) of his mouth. r"" "
The dream in Blue looked older at close
range. Ho)vever, she wished him back quite
politely considering the fact that only a
primeval monosyllabic sound had escaped
his mouth. Indicating a secluded window
seat nearby, Screwy whispered, • May I have
a word with,You Over there? '
To his astonishment she nodded assent and
moved over; It took them only a moment
to exchange names, her's turning out to be
Rashmi. .Then Screwy got to the crux of the
matter. 'You seen the bunch of morons
sitting over there? Well, they are responsible
for what I am going to say now. (atld here
he ,'aised his voice) To wit: may I have the
honour of proposing to you 1 '
She gave him one of those looks which
normally kill cockroaches at thirty yards.
Screwy silently cursed Hwnphrey Bogart.
This approach was all wrong-no fiitesse. He
was just going into his Cheshire cat routine
when he noticed that an ' I always use Lux'
smile was transforming her face. (Doris Day
couldn't have done it better, thought the everalert Screwy)
The Vision said, 'If I were to say <f yes 'j,
would you take me seriously?' Exceeding joy
had made Subramanya Raman bold. 'Only
till we reach Delhi' (I<ock Hudson) replied.
As Screwy charged off triumphantly Rashmi
turned to the toddler sitting nearby and spoke
in her native Punjabi, C EON, you know; I feel
ten yeara younger at the moment I •

-RAT.

you can rJoorJle agaiq!

