February, 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

CARICATURE

Thoroughly Modern
Mandeep
Surds have come and surds have left the
Institute in hordes. It has been noticed
with some considerable interest and a lot of
tongue--licking relish that, by virtue of certain
inherent qualities which are difficult to duplicate, analyse or predict, this particular species
of homo sapiens lends itself amiably to any
concoction de&igned to depict the funny and
humorous side of life.
The advent of Mandeep Singh into IITM
was no ordinary event. It sparked off a
controversy which, tl) the best of our knowledge, is still raging in Parliament. It has some
thing to do with the validity of the entrance
examinations.
The Malldeep Singh of today is a distinctly
revised and re--edited version of the Mandeep
Singh that we first met in the first year. Nobody knows when exactly the metamorphosis
took place. It is difficult to pinpoint the
exact day and date. but all are agreed that it
was somewhere in the third year that he
became a gunman of knowledge, a sort of
intellectual bonfire, surprising people who had
long ago listed him as a modest agreeable dolt.
He came right up to one and put questions
like, 'When Robert Kennedywas the AttorneyGeneral of the US, who was the President? '
or • Can you name a President of the US who
was assassinated in a theatre and whose name
starts with L ? '
It was intriguing, unnerving to say the least.
People spoke about it in hushed tones and
whispered • Where does he get it from? He
must be getting transfusions from an
Intelligence Bank 1'
It wasn't until quite some time later that
\Ve found out Mandeep Singh had started
reading Time Magazine, a habit he still
assiduously pursues so much so that one may
rightly say he is a man made by Time.
Like allred-blooded people, he has his favourites, too, his current heroes being Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi and Jagat Giri

Mandeep Singh reach the Medical room stern
first and walk out with the hostel pillow.
The next morning, the hon'ble Warden
paid Mandeep Singh a visit presumably for
a first hand account of • How to steal a pillow
and get away with it--almost.' ·When asked
why he did it, Mandeep Singh turned crimson
to the tips of his beard and said something
about his spine not being what it used to be
and the explicit orders his Doctor had given
him to use a pillow. He finished lamely
\vith • I just borrowed it Sir. I was going
to. !"eturn ~t, honest I was. You can ask
GIrl••••.•.

• All right, all right,' said the Warden trying
to be nice about the whole thing,' but the
next time you want something ..••.• •
• Yes Sir, I'll ask for it Sir.'
• Good. Now then, how do you spend
your leisure hours, Mr. Mandeep Singh? I
can see you do a lot of reading. Is that the

(~Elect.)

It is difficult not to spot him at all the
important functions of the Institute. For instance when the Maharishi came to the
Institute, it was Mandeep Singh who chauffered
him in.
At the beginning of the term he comes w~l
equipped with a tooth brush and shoe laces to
brave the hazardl~ of hostel life. The rest of
the accesories such as soap, tooth-paste, shoes
etc., are supplied by his wing mates ••••
whether they like it or not. He is of the firm
view that the hostel he lives in is the original
People's Hostel. The' People' in this case
being he.
One bright, sunny day he decided to up his
standards and get himself a pillow. It's not
very comfortable sleeping on a pile of textbooks-borrowed text-books-day in and day
out. So at the stroke of midnight, on a dark
and moonless night he slipped into his faithful
sneakers, picked up his thermos flask and
went downstairs. He read the notice board
nonchalantly as people are wont to when they
have nothing in particular to do. and stood
looking aimlessly here and there. The
thermos was to be his alibi, a silent witness
to his desires for water. Turning around to
face the mess, he put into action part tWo of
his diabolical plot, For every two steps forward he took three backwards. The overall
impression meantto be conveyed to prying eyes
was that of one Mandeep Si~gh walking
towards the mess, flask in hand in quest of
water when in fact he progressed in a direction
i:lllPosite to the mess. The phenomenon of
..ten.tion of image was to play an important
in the plot. As luck would have it
was one stupid gardener, not so well
":a Physics, who could only discern

7

------_.._----_._.

latest 'rime Magazine r' He reaches out
for it, casually flips a few pages then
suddenly stiffens in surprise, • Mr. Mandeep
Singh .. I ? I'
'Er •• it's from the Common Room, Sir. I
was going to return it this evening Sir, really
I was, you can ask Giri, Sir .•.• '
C Please
see that you do. And thisah-chair? '
• From the Common Room, Sir, 1. ..er ...1
• ••1 was )ust going to return, it Sir when
you came ln, you can a~k •..•.•
With a little more pleasant chit-chat in the
same vein about the rest of the things in his
room, including his new collection of
records, the Warden left, promising to cal1
on him at least once every week.
Mandeep Singh is undoubtedly on par with
the Mechanical Age•. He is the only Surd on
the Campus with a mechanical hair drier.
And although he hasn't yet had occasion to
use it, he takes great pains to leave it in pain
fully obvious places to let all and sundry know
he uses nothing so old fashioned as a towel.
w

He even took it to class one day and pretended
it was all a big mistake. Instead of picking up.
his file he happened to grab the hair drier, ••.
The year he got his Scooter his conversa...
tii:>n followed a very predictable trend. His
opening pieces invariably ran something like,
, Last time t was going on my scooter •••. ' or,
• Have you c.ever tried taking four guys on a
scooter? •••• ' His favourite story until a few
days ago was how he cleaned the carburetH
tor of his scooter single-handed. He was the
only one who failed to see what was so funny
about the whole thing until someone informed himl! tactfully one hopes, that what
he had cleaned was the sparlr. plug, not the
carburettor.
Mandeep Singh is the only person on
record to walk into the Bank, go .through
the motions of writing a check, sign it on
the dotted line, settle down on one of the
benches and yet not get any closer to his cash
well towards closing time. It seems nobody
told him he had to give his check jn to the
clerk at the counter. All along he had been
sitting and holding it in his hands.
True he may be a strain on the furniture
and a drain on the food budget once he
parks himself in your room. But apart from
that h~ is a thoroughly harmless sort of guy.
It is always a great source of amusement to
hear him talk about himself. He has a gift
of the gab and if you are not on your
guard. it doesn't take him long to convince.
you that he represents what every female
hungers for.. His most convincing argument,
{What do y,ou think it was that attracted
Delilah to Samson? It was his hair, this
long lovely luxuriant growth that I have .... '
If ev~ ,ve want anything advertised these
days we don't go to the newspapers anymore. We just tell Mandeep Singh, it's
much cheaper.
·When you come to the final year, your
Psychology teacher will tell you that man
is a prime imitator. Mandeep Singh CAw
plodes that myth and proves that a Sardar
is the prime imitator. One of his friends,
slightly on the clever side, is in the habit of
studying lying down in bed. Our man
thought that the flow of knowledge from
book to wherever his brains are, was better
that way. He tried it for two periodicals
but the res\1lts were disastrous enough to
convince hini his brains are just not where
he thought they were. Someone suggested
he make use of gravity. So, very soon
passers-by began to notice Mandeep Singh
standing up and studying, the idea being
not to cramp his brains by sitting down,
whilst making use of gravity.
Whereas the Whole of IITM is US College
bent, Mandeep Singh is a man with a
difference. None of the rat race for Fellowships, Scholarships, or admissions for him.
He has directly applied to a number of firms
in the US and the continent for a job. Not
just any old firm, but only those select few
which he has come to know through his
own special and intricate web of intelligence
that have a desperate need for an imported
Maintenence Engineer, also called a janitor.
And how does he ever hope to get this
challenging post? Well in his own inimitable
words • Pop's influence, Yaarl '
In spite of all the disadvantages and handicaps (none of them of his own making)
Mandeep Singh has made it to the final
year, and when he passes out he is bound
to leave behind a vacuum which will not
be filled up in a hurry. However Some
optimists seem to think he will leave no such
vacuum. He'11 take it with him-in that
space between his turban and nose.
AnVIND rOHARl.

Our hockey team struck gold in the
Buck Menl0riaJ Tournament conducted
by' the Y.M.C.A.

