8

[February. 1·969

CAMPASTIMES

The Kan]plulr MeetFOOTBALL
The Madras Eleven baftled Kanpur
when they scratched out a 4-1 win over
the host on the first morning of the Meet.
Right from kick-off our forwards broke
through. Centre-forward Victor Thamburaj
diverted a ball unerringly into the net for an
opening. With the Kanpur left-half hooking
in a self-goal. Madras led zoo at half-time.
Soon after resuming play, Shorty with that
rare and magical ability always to be in the
right place at the right second, took a rebound
from the Kanpur goal-keeper and slammed
into the net. 3-0. Madras got the final goal,
when Bhattacharjee raced past the penalty area
and shot hard into the net. With two minutes
to go, the Kanpur fotward took goal-keeper
Chandran unawares to score their only goal.
Madras beat Delhi 3-Z the next day to
reach Finals. The match drew no crowd.
Meanwhile, Kharagpur beat Bombay zoo.
Outclassing a weak but spirited Madras
team, championship bound Kharagpur toyed
through a 5-1 win on the third day of the
meet. With close on half the team invalided,
Madras kept the high-speed Kharagpur forwards until half-time. The first blow came
when Kharagpur got an effortless unexpected
goal. P. Das soon rammed in a pass from the
corner. zoo. Fighting in a spasm, Madras
came back into the game when Sanyal shot
in. The 2-I SCOre at half-time afforded no
decision; but the fierce Kharagpur attack
that came soon after paralysed our players.
Das netted t\yo more goals, and Sumanta sent
the last one in to tot up a 5-1 victory.
TRACK AND FmLD
Discus-M. SanyaI, second.
Triple jump-C. Rathnaswamy, fourth.
800 metres-Raju, third.
fOO metres-Joshy Paul, third.
SHUTTLE

The huge crowd that had braved bitter
cold to watchEdwin Srinivasan in the matches

between Madras and Kharagpur was dis~
appointed. Eddie was running a temperature,
and captain Shankar Swamy had decided to
rest him for the tougher encounters ahead.
(Some still believe that Edwin could--and
shou1d~-have played.) In short, the only
team from Madras confident of their ten
points returned home with a blob. K~aragpur
beat Madras 3-1.
Vaidyanathan and Capt. Sheo Puri who
took on the singles challenge from KGP put
up an excellent performance. The former's
confidence and celerity, and the latter's style
and polish was a treat to the crowd.
BASKETBALL
Madras took the Shield for the third
time in succession. With every member
a player of outstanding merit, the Madras
DB team had no trouble in winning the
finals against Bombay with a margin of
19 points.
1st match; MAD beat DLI 53-39' Capt.
M. S. Venkateswaran, with his characteristic

faking while going for undeI-basketting, was
the top scorer. Right winger Suresh Bhandari
got all his delightful jump shots accurately.
2nd match: MAD beat BMB 57-38. Centre
forward Abraham was in excellent form in
this match. He pleased the crowd with his
confident basketting. Brilliant display by
George Varghese in both offence and defence
steered Madras out of a few tight situations.
At half-time, the score read 23-21. Soon
Bombay took a lead of 4 points. With
tremendous speed on the court and deft
under-basketting, Raju Jacob helped in bringing life into the game. Madras caught up
with Bombay at 27. Their team work
th.rilled the crowd. Ramakrishnan's defence
was sound; and while the Bombay score
was stagnant at z7. the Madras forwards
secured a lead of 8 points. A short' lull
followed. Then in a fervour, and with
morale boosted by Dr Rajendran (coach),
Madras paralysed their opponents. The last
3. minutes brought them a further lead of
12

points.

Dr. Rajendran, ex all star player, has
successfully coached the triumphant basketball team for the last two years. • He played
the key role in our success," says captain
Venkateswaran. .
TENNIS
KGP broke the tension in the crowd

when they edged a 3-'1. victory over MAD
in the first encounter. In spite of winning
the first two matches, (Ramappa beat
A. SarkaI' 6-'1., 6-3 and Ram Kumar beat
R. Srinivasan 6-1, 8-6) Madras helplessly
cru:mpled out to loose the remaining
three matches.
Ramappa, the dashing Madras captain,
always placed the ball well and convincingly
won the nrst match. In the other singles,
young Menon dictated the play. The score:
M-2 KGP-o. And Madras looked poised
to win the doubles too, when Ramappa and
Ram Kumar Menon took the first set 6-2
VI. Sarkar and Srinivasan. Suddenly, KGP
came back in that second set. Sarkar crashed Ramappa's next serve to take the set 6~4.
With the third set also going KGP way 6~4,

the SCore read fM-z KGP-I. In the fourth
match Srinivasan had Ramappa in trouble.
He smashed all returns and effortlessly won
the match 6-2, 6~3. The score: M~2
KGP-2. Ram Kumar now meant everything
to Madras. As the match started, the tension
was high. Ram Kumar held Sal'kar's serves
and took the first set 6~3. In a marathon
session of tennis, the second set' went to
Sarkar 7-5. Now the last set would decide.
And when Madras needed Ram Kumar most,
the cold took him hard. His thighs and
wrist were cramped. and were massaged at
quick intervals, while Sarkar and the crowd
waited impatiently. The first six games
went alternately to Ram Kumar and Sarkar,
taking the set score to ;3.-3' Then Ram
Kumar was out. Sarkar got that last set 6-3.
(What a fall was there .. , . .. I)
Other draws:

DLI beat BMB 3-0.
KNP beat DLI 3-0
KGP beat l{NP 3-2
MAD beat DLI 3-1.

GYMNASTICS

The gym team comprises of frank
gymnasts. When they get no prizes they
say so. No excuses made. No sympathies
expected. However a reporter must do. his
duty and honestly report theil' performance
at the IIT Meet. Lose though they did, it
was narrowly to the winning team. (Kharagpur would not participate for lack of pacti ..
cipants.) For the odd 20 hrs. of coaching
our boys got, and with three new members
with no competition experience, the overall
show was one of good representation. The
highlights of their participation was in their
performence on the mats (ground work).
This event got started close to sundown;
Madras performed'ifirst. The spectators, not
knowing what exactly good ground work is,
began applauding every move of our players.
Others soon got infected with this spirit.
Some shock they would haye got the following day on watching proper groundwork.
As a reporter, 1 must admit to a good deal
of unsatisfactory judgement of exercise. For
one, the judges were from event to event
replaced by seemingly better ones. Nobody
seemed to be happy about the points in any
event. And since those judges were in fact
team coaches, a sort of compensatory process
came into being. And this did demoralize
the participants-at least those who did not
have their coaches to judge.
Captain Ravi Nirula was at his usual
best.

VOLLEYBALL
The seven Madras spikers beat Delhi, the
champions of the last Meet, IS-8, 15-12, in
the first encounter. Instead of fighting for
the lowest rung, Madras reached finals.
Meanwhile, Bomba?, defeated KGP and KNP
to enter the finals.l:
The Madras f}S. Bombay match reached an
exciting finish. In the first game Madras led
13-10, but 5 consecutive points from BMB
stumped the onlookers. Goaded by the first
game success, and taking advantage of bad
co-ordination between some Madras players,
BMB got the next game 15'13. Madras

~ought.

They slammed and spiked and
hammered-but 13MB took them lying down!
The game went to Madras. 15-12. However, the match reached a tame ending when
Madras conceded f the next game 8-1:5 to
Bombay.
HOCKEY

Madras received a hard blow when they
lost the first match 0-1 to Delhi. The
absence of Gill, Allen, Cariappa, Gael and
Kapoor was greatly felt.
Other matches:
BMB beat KNP 1-0 in extra time.
KGP beat BMB Z~O to reach finals.
DLI beat KGP 2-1 in the finals.
TABLE TENNIS
Delhi won five out of the· six singles
matches against Madras. Prem Watsll played
excellently well to win the only match.
Madras freshman Ranganathan started off
well with aggres~}ve attack but switched over
to defence later, only to lose the match.

Photo; Chandy Mathe,vs

