February. 19691

1968
On the 24th of December '68, the JhansiLucknow Passenger chugged illto Kanpur
Central a couple of hours behind schedule.
Nobody (including th.e driver) ..lmew the.
scheduled time of arnval. "Ve pIled out of
the train and onto the awaiting buses which
took us to lIT (Those of you who complain
that civilil!;ation is too far away from this
Institute are strongly advised against visiting
IIT Kanpur.) The Reception Committee
lost no time in introducing us to the wonders
of lIT Kanpur. On the bus we heard that
Kanpur has among other things Video-kape,
Television, a Flying and Gliding Club.
While wc sat and listened (modest as we are)
they told us that they expected to win (among
other things) hockey, tennis, table-tennis and
basketball.
(They won table-tennis and
gymnastics).
I1T Kanpur, it must be conceded, is something to gape at_ Massive space-age buildings
emerge impresshrcly from their bleak, wind~
swept and dusty surroundings. The ~nain
building (which makes the H.S.n. look like a
cottage) houses all the faculties, offices etc.
Here's what the lIT. Kanpur ncwspaperSparl~ has . to say about the library and
lecture 11a1l:s-' Supposed to be the heart of
the institute, the cistern-like con5tI."Uctioll (the
library) is Sllppcl'tfJd by a team of tall slender
pillars. Similarly constructed is our hexagonal lecture h.all complex \vhich is quite
close to the library. Bewildering modern capping constructions atop both these buildings
make them look straight out of the movie, Time Machine'. The library is reputedly
one of the best in India. There ate five large
hostels accommodllting about 400 students
each. There are two messes (good grub) in
each hostel, all ullused ' T. V. room' and canteen. The canteens were the most im
pl'essiyc. They are open upto midnight and
sell coffee, tea, smokes, eggs, sweets etc. So
much for the features of IIT Kanpur.
IIT Kanpur tUl'l1cd out to be an excellent
host. Everything was meticuously organized
and for this reason the sixth Inter I IT meet
will go down ill the record books as an unqualified success. The staff and students at
Kallpur displayed a lot of enthusiasm for all
the events taking place. The crowd was
strictly partisan while the home tcams were
playing. Amid the lusty cheeriJlg in Hindi
and Indian English. it was hard to escape
the full-throated cries of the American children who yelled < C'moll Canpawr ! '
If the number of records broken is allY
indication of the success of 'loU Inter-IIT
Meet then the Kanpur meet must surely
rank high. KGP's R. D'Souza was unbeatable
on the tracks. He set up records in the :zoo,
400, 800 and 1,500 metres. A muscle pull
prevented him from smashing the lOa metres
record. KNP's V. P. Alleja broke the 5,000
metres records. The 4 X lOa and 4 X 400
metre relay records were broken by KGP and
KNP respectively. Krishnaswamy of KNP
improved upon the shot-put and discuss marks.
The meet also produced four hattricks :
"* KGP WOll the football championship for
th.e third year ill succession.
* Delhi won the badminton title for the
third consecutive year.
«< MDS held on to the bllsketbnll title for
the third successive year.
* MDS won the dubious distinction of
being placed last for the general championship
for the third time in succession!
The usual post~mol'tems on our performance were dutifully performed. A sample
of the stock excuses in the air-' If we had
won tennis, ..•.. If Eddie wasn't ill ... , if
all our players were here •.. .' Nevertheless,
it must be admitted that 1968 off'el'ed us the
best opportunity to date. The points positi.on
before the final match of the meet (losing semi~
finalists in the T.T. match between DMB and
DELHI) was as follows; KGP~56, KNP-33,

BOM-33, MDS-24. DELHI-23. Delhi won
the crucial two points.. Victories for us in
tennis and badminton would ha\'e significantly
altered the final placings.

3

CAMPASTIMES
The girls·' events were straight contests
between KGP and KNP and attracted little
attention. However, the KGP girls lent
invaluable moral and vocal support to their
contingent.
On the last day, an exhibition hockey
match between a combined IIT·s team and
North Eastern Railway was arranged. The
match did .not get the attention it m,erited
though it was a novel future. The rallwaymen wcre a shade better than the combined
team and won 2-0.
While reviewing the happenings at Kanpur,
several outstanding performances other than
those already mentioncd come to my mind.
In our first round football match against KNP
C, Nair (Shorty) scored what was undoubtedly the best goal seen in Ka!1pur. 'Weaving
gracefully past four (01' was it five) ? Kanpur
defC1lders he flammed the ball into the cornel'
of the goal. Mention must be made ~f
KGP's A. Sarcar who usually represents hiS
!nstitute in foUl' games-tennis,. badminton.
table-tennis, and foolball. TillS year he
participated in tennis and badminton only.
His sensational victory against KNP's Bhargava (after losing thc first set) clinched the
tennis title for KGP. The other !ITs can
breathe a sigh of relief as Sarear will be end~
ing his se.\·cn year stay in KGP when he gets
his M. TECH. this year. M. S. Venkatesh\Varan. (L.P.), our basketball captain, deserves
special mention. He hobbled on to the
basketball court with a badly damaged knee.
He wasn't the sUl'e~fire scorer that he usually
is, but everybody was impressed by his. fightM
ing spirit. Sudhir Kumar of DelhI was
undefeated in badminton, and was the most
outstanding hockey-player of the meet.
Prof. Dutta our staff adviser proved to
be the most loyal fan of lIT Madras despite our plummetting fortunes. He
turned out to watch all our matches and
the personal interest he took in ironing
out all our problems impressed us. I
wish I could say the same of our P.T.I.s.
A very colourful closing ceremony rang
down the curtain on the Meet. We left lIT.
Kanpur at 5-30 a.m. on the 30th of December.
, 'We'll show 'em next year ! '-declared.tho~c
who will be trying to salvage our reputatIon in
Khal'agpur this year.
-CM.

JHANSI
1969
People work remarkably well under tension.
Our special bogie (minus mirrors, bulbs
and othel' fittings) arrived at Jhansi at
I p.m. on the 30th December.
From there
we werc supposed to be connected to the
Madras-bound Grand Trunk Express at 00.07
hrs. all the 31st. We roamed the strcets of
Jhllnsi town; some people wellt to a movie
and a good many of us found ourselves in a
, Runs-like' establishment called ' Hotel
Ashok ; (BAR ATTACHED). Money being in
short supply, the liquor did'nt flow as freely
as the boozers wished it to. Anyway, by ::: r
that night, everyone was happiJy snoring away
iii the bogie. The rail'way officials slept
better than we the previolls night an.d the
G.T. hnd rushed by without tis!
Five 01' Six guys angrily stormed iuto the
Station Superintendent's office where they
encountered two slick gentlemen, fresh as
morning dew, who brazenly lied that they had
been awake all night 'wmrying' about us.
They claimed that (i) the leaf-springs on our
compartment were broKen the previous night
and (ii) there was no place on the G.T.
To placate t~S, they offered to connect our
begie to the Itarsi Passenger as it would be
easier to connect US onto the G. T. at Itarsi. At
7-30, a.m. we finally realised that they were
merely trying to get liS off their hands by
shunting us onto !tarsi and that there was no
guarantee of our being C01lnected there. Our
travel schedule specifically stated that we were

to be connected onto the G:I'. at Jhansi. We
refused to let the Itarsi passenger budge until
the Station Superintendent discussed the
matter, with .us. The guard c1~med that as
long as the Signal was down, he had to wave
his green flag and the engine-drivel' claimed
that whenever the green :!lag waS waved, he
had to start the train; otherwise he would be
penalized. Consequently the following sequence of operations ensued :
(1) Guard ,vaves green flag
(2)! Driver starts train
(3) We pull chain
(4) Dri\'er stops train
(5) RailwaymcJ1 reset chain
(6) Guat'd waves green flag etc.
This strategy was eminently successful and
the train laboured through 50 metres in two
hoUl's. Eventually the Station Superintendent
agreed to keep us in Jhansi. He warned uS to
keep off the shullting yards and remain safely
in our bagie • ao there ",iII be a lot of shunting
today'. We told him that he had better
counect us to the G.T. '01' else all southbound trains will be stopped'. [SIC1.
DesDite the fact that Tuesday is a' Prohi·
. bition Day' in U.P., it was another field day
for Hotel Ashok.
At co.07 hrs. on January 1st 1969 we were
hooked onto the G.T. an.d were bound for
Madras within the next few minutes.

-eM.

INTER UNIVERSITY TOURNAMENT IN
CRICKET

Scores

19 December 1968
lIT beat Venkatesh:wara University by an
innings and 67 runs.
Vellkateshwara I innings 80 all out.
(Chakravurthi 4 for I8)
IIT I innings 221 all out.
(V. Ashok 99, B. V. Seshadri 33, Raja
V. Lulla 38 not out)
,
Vcnkatcshwara II innings 74 all out.
(RamgopaJ 2 for 14. N. Subramaniam 3. for 5)
23 December 1968
IlT lost to Bangalorc Agricultural University.
Ill" I innings 82 (Chakravarthi 24)
II i\1llings 126 (D. Sharma 25, Chakl·u·
varthi 24, R. Sharma 21)
Bangaiore Agricultmul University:
r innings 75 (Ashok 3 wickets, N. Subra·
maniam 3 wickets, and Ramgopal:z wickets)
II innings 134 for 8.

GET YOUR S'\'IMMING TRUNKS READY
The ~wirnming pool problem is being
solved. The water purification system should
be ready by the end of this year. We got
this information right out of the designer's
mouth. Design of the filter is complete
(although it hasn~t been decided whether it
will work under press ute 01' gravity). Pumpirlg costs are being worked out.. The annual
operating costa of the pool may be well ovel'
Rs. 30,000. Doesn't that leave you gasping?
But the designer accounts fol' this by the high
cost of coagulents (alum) and NaOH or
Na ll C0 3 necessary to adjust the pH value of
the. water to around 9.5 when coagulation is
facilitated. Incidentally, the water will be
drawn from the 'Lake' during the winter
months. Any questions?

-Campastimes

