10

CAMPASTIMES

l February, '969

By the Way
'W hat does

Iiffle biJ'die say.

112 its l2est at dawn

01 day P

• eampasfimes' you cannof say

r In

/Vasty tbiaBs, aad gef Hway I'

3F§F Tians.

Editorial
Time and again we have observed that the
interest and activity of a majority of the
.elected representatives of the Gymkhalla are
concentrated on the brief period when the
elections are held. The elections themselves
are hollow farces. Year against year, gang
against gang, and language against language
is how they are waged. Not one genuine
campaigning speech, not one statement of
general policy, have we heard in years. Since
Winning the election is for sotne the end rather
than the beginning, the deplorable state of the
Gymkhana is not surprising.
It is not however our intention to analyse
the democratic system ill general. Plato did
that a long time ago. Nor do we wish to
attack the Constitution of the Gymkhana. It
functioned fairly well in years gone by. Our
complaint is much more specific. We merely
want to ask why some of the Gymkhana's
duties this year have been so shamefully
neglected.
Take the Literary Committee. This has
always been a group with heavy responsibilities,
and the Literary Secretary has usually risen
to the occasion. But not this year. We
hear that the Committee has hardly ever met
formally. They have not conducted even the
bare minimum of usual events. Teams have
not been sent out as often as they ought.
Competitors have not been briefed. The inter
hostel quiz and debate have not been held. At
the time of writing, what has the Literary Com~
mittee done?
The easiest part of working on a project

for the Science Fair is actually building it.
But three~fourths of" the total work lies in
overcoming administrative obstacles. Our
workshops will S0011 be asking for GRE,
TOEFL and character references from FBI
and from the Soviet Politburo. Taken all
in all the frequency and extensiveness of the
bumrush given to the model builder quickly
damp his enthusiasm. When you plead two
hours off and spend an hour and a half shuttl~
ing between the workshops and administration
points, you don't feel like staging a repeat
performance the next day. Nor do you feel
like undertaking another project next yeal·.

Are

50

as a rule,

mild, and p/ay if cool.

Buf in ( eifm:;pasfimes •you cannof say

Nasty things, and get

awaY.

§Fn this Mag ODe lilies fo see

Over a cup of tlye Aye Tea;
Not yap yap of two or three
]fa/twits arouncl

!IT.
-1/anganafhan

INDIA INDEPENDENT IN HIGH VACUUM

TECHNOLOGY
A

short~term

course in High Vacuum
Technology, jointly sponsored by IlTM and
the Bhaba Atomic Research Centre, was
conducted here from 2nd to 20th December,
I968. The objective of the course, to highlight
the basic phenomena occuring in vacuum, and
how it affected investigation, was covered in
32 lectures, technical visits, and :films.
Candidates with a bachelor's degree in
Engineering or a master's degree in Physics
or Chemistry were eligible to apply.
Similar COurses were held in the December
of 1966 and 1967 at lIT Bombay.
Advances in this field have led to vacuum
evaporation, sputtering, metallurgical proces~
ses like vaccuurn.~melting purification, newer
propulsion techniques, etc.
Dr. H. N. Sethna, Director of the Bhaba
Atomic Research Centre, in his valedictory
address on the 21St December, said that the
Institutes of Technology in India should forge
a close link betweeu scientists who explore
and engineers who put their results to practical use.
Dr. A. Ramachandran, Directol", IITM,
said that a number of similar courses in the
various engineering faculties will be conducted
here in future.
Dr. C. Ambnsankaran from the Bhaba
Atomic Research Centre said that foreign
collaboration will no more be necessary in
the field of high vaCuum technology.
-Campastimes News.

*
We record with great sorrow
the demise of our beloved Chief
Minister Thiru C. N. Annadurai.

AN EDITOR'S JOB
Getting out a paper is liO picnic.
If we print jokes people sny we are. silly.
If we dont, they say we are too seno~s.
If we pinch things from other magazlOes
Weare too lazy to write them ourselves.
If we don't we are stuck on our own stuff.
If we don't print every word of every contri~
bution we don't appreciate genius.
If We do print them th.e columns are filled
with ink.
If we mak.e a change i(1 the other person's
write up we are too critical.
If we don't, we arC blamed for poor editing.
Now, like as not, some guy will say
We swiped this from some other sheet.
We did,

The Christmas vacation has come and gone
and here we al'e again. But I for one feel
deprived of The Month.. That glorious month
just after the exams wpich was the peak period
for extra curricular activity, is no longer part
of the order of things. The lingering hope
that The Month might immediately follow
the holidays has been scotched by certain
notices from the academic section.
Harking bacIt to· the holidays, one is bound
to remark that the IITian on holiday is as
characteristic as the IlTian at work. The
broadest grin, the maddest plans, the P'est 1's,
the loudest roar of laughtel' seem to be his
exclusive pl'Operty. And we must not, of
course, forget his lack of affinity towards other
IITians on holiday. A nod, a smile, a wave
of the hand.... who the blazes wants to
discuss mess grub and periodicals during hols
anyway? When IITian meets IITian, the
conversation veerS around to these topics with
depressing inevitability.
Talking of depressing incvitables, the shock
of the communication regarding your son/.
ward's progress, complete with the usual
veiled threats, is I).ow history, even if it is
recent history. Rarely if ever have there been
such admirable examples of history repeating
itself. • . . • and grades repeating them~
selves .••.. , and parents repeating them~
selves ••...• and us retreating to the hostels.
Coming to the present, the weather is in one
of its (few) bearable phases in Madras. There
is a distinct nip in the ail" ill the morning,
which doubtless explains why nobody reaches
class at eight sharp. (I hate to say this, but
if you did, evidence points to "jour being a
nobody). Literary Week is in the offing.
Judging from the torpor which·of late seems to
have overCome the literary committee, history
repeating itself with respect to the success
of the week would be a consummation devoutly
to be wish't. On the other hand, ambitious
plans to make the week better and brighter
are also afoot, I am told. Which is all to
the good.
A word in my defence. One reader felt
that I was too conscious of our image in
dwelling on an unpleasant incident at sonIC
length. I feel obliged to say that I was not
the least interested in our 'image.' I was
trying to draw otV attention to ourselves-our
sense of hygiene and decency or our lack of it. I
was far less perturbed by the possibility of all
outsider decryihg the iucident ill question
than by the reality of our own people condon~
lng-or at any rate ignoring-it. There is
also a feeling that the length of a passage is in
direct proportion to the importance of its
contents. So if I write 25 lines about A alld
5 lines about B, A is in my opinion 5 times as
important as B. This deduction is unfair,
and, as far as 1 am concerned, untrue. Being
human an.d no\: electronic, I cannot approportion the length of this column in the ratio
of relative importance. I have often written
more on a less significant point. My apologies
to those whose sense of proportion has been
offended. These differences are essentially
a matter of taste, and I cannot dispute with
those who dislike my views 01" my ways ()£
expressing them: I merely wanted to point
out that I too had my reasons.
A chat with the Editor has led me to put
down a few remarks to the juniors, who appear
distressingly reluctant to meet the rest of us.
This is with special reference to those who
want to write for Campastim(Js. A number
of articles have come ill, some of them rather
well written: but the subject matter is not
new. You must realise that jokes about
periodicals, and friends falling foul of lecturers
with zoological nick-names, and A tucking into
B's grub, are all as old as the hills and cannot
be republished, particularly when written
anonymously at under a ridiculous pen name.
As of this volume, there are far too many
people signing themselves 'Moron' and
, Dopey' and such. Do write, and write a
lot; but aim at being original and use your
own name. Here's to a crop of witty articles
from the erstwhile freshers.
-PARAMESlIWARAN.

