F~bruarYf

1969}

of -t1ye-t1ye Ji.q
Yet another vacation has rushed by and
here we are faced with another term. Surprisingly, the weather is pleasant, especially
during the evenings to midmornings. when it
tends to be chilly. In Madras at that I I
must write to Ripley about it one of these
days. What's more, it has prevented the
Bangalore chaps' home-sickness and saved us
the listening to their I-was-wearing-a-sweaterthis-time-just-Iast-week stories.
The coming term wouldn't be too bad what
with the cultural week, the hostel days, the
sports day, the institute day and things on
those lines. The past vacation is hardly one
to cry over, considering the tours, survey
camps and factory trainings that we were sent
away on and, of course the Inter lIT Meet.
The grade-card (progress-report is, I believe, the technical expression) came along
early enough in the vacation and that is
pretty efficient considering that the offices
were being shifted into the new Administrative Building around then. I really have no
idea how they managed it all so fast, what
with the lecturers away On tours, surveycamps and just plain holidays and with clerks
who do the totalling and despatching, carrying
the almirahs and tables to the new building.
The explanation perhaps lies in what I
picture in my mind of a clerk, laden with a
table, a couple of chairs and a few bundles of
files, walking down the road to the new block,
totalling up in his mind the marks of some
poor blighter.
That is all very well, but no\v that we are
on th.e subject of grade.cards, I would want
to dish out some thoughts on this topic. In
any higher institutw~ on learning, I believe
there should not be any of this grade-card
business. I mean, it makes one feel small
and school-agey to receive the cards telling,
'Attabay, you are doing well', or' Naughty
chap, you must buck up and do better' or
things on those lines.
I am sure that for any reason we can find
for the abolition of the grade-card system, the
staff can find five why it is necessary. So we
shall resign ourselves to the fact that grade
cards are inevitable.
But then, they could be a little more
grown-up about it. The idea of underlining
the bad grades must have been the brain
child of a confirmed pessimist. I mean, that
is looking purely at one side of the picturethe bad side at that. If one goes around
splashing red ink beneath the poor grades and
adding as a footnote that the blighter is dangerously 011 the precipice in those subjects
and had better be told where he got off, it is
only reasonable that they add a dash of green
beneath the A's and S's and say that the
chappie is too good in the subject and that if,
he goes on at this rate he would soon be'
stuck with the Nobel Prize and things on those
lines. I should think it stands to reason
that way.
The ancient Chinese are credited with the
invention of the examination system. Maybe
that explains this mania for splashing red
about.
What's more, there may be perfectly justifiable reasons for a chap's getting a poor
grade. Considering that in every subject
there is going to be held a periodical which
is going to be eliminated, it is only natural
that guys who get tolerable (to good) grades
in a subject, neglect one of these periodicals
to concentrate on a subject where they are
doing badly.
That's just one reason. Thf'n there's thissince our Institute doesn't give re-periodicals

II

CAMPASTIMES
for any reason, it may have chanced that a
chap who was down with a nasty head-ache
and a heavy head-cold in the featuring role,
with a slight fever on the supporting cast, had
dragged himself up to do the periodical.
Now one can't go around expecting him to top
the paper and set up a new academic record.
It is a constant fear of mine that maybe
one day a gorilla would catch me and tear
me limb from limb and a couple of lecturers
passing by would say, 'Don't look now, but
it looks like Gape is going to miss tomorrow's
periodical' and saunter past.
Another aspect of the grade card which
causes some chaps to experience a sort of
abyssmal soul-sadness is the idea of dishing
out ' satisfactory' attendance. I mean, some
chaps, what with attendance at extra classes
on Saturday afternoons and things, have
worked up a 120% attendance and the grade
card says simply-" attendance: satisfactory,"
In the first place I should think that that
is very bad motivation. In the next place
it leaves the chap with a feeling not unlike
what the wounded solidier would have felt,
had he seen Sir Philip Sidney draining the
canteen of water with a careless, , Bottoms up.'
The saving grace is however the unique
humour with which our chappies take on
these misfortunes. Last year the game of
, Jaldee Five' was invented. It is a sort of
Housie-Housie and the winner is the person
who brings in the first grade card with either
a horizontal row or vertical column fully
underlined in red. There was however an
impasse when at the last moment somebody
charged in with a ' full house'.

*' event *'of this month's
" activities
A memorable
was the visit to our Institute by Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi. Originally we were promised
only an audio-visual recording of Maharishi's
visit to the Harvard University but later it
was known that after the movie the Maharishi
would arrive in person, which he did.
The impression I got was that he is a
very calm person possessing a quick wit.
He is not at all like the sterotyped Maharishis one reads about in novels and sees in
movies, who start the conversation with,
'Why did you come to me?' and when
you say. • So that you may be my Guru',
gets the last word with,' Brahman alone is the
Guru ' and things like that.
His novel idea of transcendental meditation
should find many disciples. Personally speaking, he sold me clean with his philosophy of
, Work less-achieve more.'
His philosophy is the enjoyment of spiritual
as well as material happiness. As opposed to
the meditation practised by our ancient sages,
who give up the material happinesses of this
world to meditate for months on end on the
Infinite, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi advocates
the enjoyment of life to the full with thirty
minutes of meditation a day (fifteen in the
morning, ditto in the evening). when one
empties the mind of all thought and contemplates on the source of thought-'-if I got
him right, that is.
After the lecture, the Maharishi agreed to
clear any doubts and answer questions. That
was asking for it and one chap said that he
was bewildered by the question of who he
was and wanted to be told who he was.
Perhaps he is one of those chaps who give
proxies for so many fellows that he is no
longer sure which one of them is himself.
Another blighter got up and gave vent to
his thought that thought was an electromagnetic wave and gave the impression that
he had every intention to lecture a bit on
its wave-length and what filters to use for
clear reception, but the Maharishi shot in
his answer and saved us the torture. Transcendental Meditation be praised !
The Cultural Week is with us once more
and, as we are told off and on, it is the
climax of the annual activities of the
Gymkhana. It means that in arranging for the
week, more fights have been fought, tempers
lost and classes cut by the members of the
Gymkhana, than for any other function. It
also means that the maximum amount of

MOHAN DOES
IT AGAIN

S.. K. Mohanakrishnan, 3/5 Mech., was
awarded third prize in the Esso Science Exhibition held recently at Madras. His entry
was a novel pump working on electromagnetic
principles. Mohan and his model are to go
to Delhi for the AIl~India Science Exhibition.
also organised by Esso.
All of us wish Mohan and his fellow
model enthusiasts the very best and look forward to seein~ mO=.ir efforts.

Freak Crossword
ACROSS
For your-.-only
5. • Move your bloomin'--?
6. Is in debt I
7. Woo lay the hegs
DOWN
I,

I.

For pressing
trousers

2.

Gol£ club

,.

lit

3

:s

3. Emergency rations
4. Metal largely used

~

!1

for making tools.
The Press and Registration of Books Acts 1867
The lollowing j,iformatioll is published as required
by Rule 8 of the Registration of Newspapers
(Central) Rilles 1956

FORM V
1. Plai.t;( J:j:~~~jtl-lnstitute Gymkhana,

2. Periodicityi of its pub/icatioll-4 issues a year.
3. Printer'sftame-Mr. C. E. Koshy.
Nationality-Indian.
Address-C/o The Diocesan Press,
ro, Church Road, Vepery, Madras-7.
4. Publisher's Name-Prof. S. Sampath.
Nationality-Indian.
Address-Dy. Director,I.LT. Madras.
5. Editor's Name-K. Kalyanaraman.
Nationality-Indian.
Address-Ganga Hostel, LI.T. Madras.
6. Names and addresses of individuals who OlVlZ
the newspaper and partners or shareholders
holding more tltal! olle per cellt of tlte total
capital.-Nil.
I. S. SamPatlJ, hereby declare that tIre particulars
give11 above are true to tlte best of my knowledge
and belief,
(Sd.) S. SAMPATH,
Signatllre of Publisher.
10th February, 1969

effort has gon~: in to make it a success. Let
everyone of us join them in keeping the
fingers crossed and hoping for the best.

•

*

*

I didn't care very much for Robert Frost
till the other day when I read that he is
credited with Ihaving made a statement to
warm the heart of students anywhere. I
believe, he once said that allY studel,t worth

anything will ig1lore his assig1led work alld do
other work of equal importance. That shows
that most of us are worth at least some~
thing-at least those of us who string along
with him and practise at least the first half
of the statement.
GOPE.

