February, 1969]
.-.:=----

13

CAMPASTIMES

-------_. ------._-------

---------------------------------------Rama starts and barks, 'How do you

Story

HAVE

a guy crazy about a dame, Simply nuts about her. She not interested. The
poor fish goes to Uncle Chakravarti, and pours out his miser!!ble story. Unc, by
far the wisest member of the family, though a bit of a reprobate, decides to lose no
time in helping him. Much C help t I The stor~ shou,ld centre round the scrapes
into which uncle a.nd nephew plonk themselves In theIr attempts to make the srlly
girl realize what a gem our hero is, and what a fool she wo~ld . be if she doesn't
fall into his arms straightaway. Of course, the hero has a Sldeklck (. ! I), Cheenu.

SCENARIO
Act I : Scene :c
A car with half-a-dozen passengers dashing
along the road .•.... one of those open Contraptions which leave your head and shoulders
poking up into the unkind airwash .••the guys
in it are trying some mad pranks. One
specimen scrambles out onto the bonnet
while another's legs are hanging out over the
rear door. Sounds of unseemly mirth and
snatches of song float in the air. ' Yo-ho-ho
and a bottle of rum I' The freak driving stands
up and whistles .••. and waves his hand at a
couple of dames walking side by side down the
road. 'Phweeet.' As you might have guessed,
he's our hero. Ramu Shivram.
The dames, now. One of them is ou.r
heroine-Leela; sounds just right (?). The
other is •• let's see, Call her Prema. • Those
horrible fellows l' says our heroine with a
look of disgust. • Just look at them. Anyone
would think they are drunk.' Other words of
feminine distaste follo\v. Prema, not so
prudent, cannot be satisfied with a curse.
She sticks out her tongue, puts her hands to
her ears and wiggles her fingers. • Don't,
Prema I' admonishes our heroine.
Ramu is taken a back by this sort
thing,
and I don't blame him. Who would ever
expect such a reaction from two pretty girls
walking down Road X? These days, girls
like being whistled at. In fact, they think it
an insult if no roving male takes into his mind
to whistle at them. It does something for
their egos, 1 believe.
Astounded for the moment, Ramu switches
his attention from Prema to Leela, Strange
thoughts charge through his mind. t I saw
her face •••• woooo, now I'm a believer' or
whatever else the modern Adam says when he
finds his Eve, is the thought that grips him
like a vice. His cigarette falls from his hand
on to one of the heads so conveniently grouped
round him. AU of which should make it
pretty apparent that as far as he is concerned,
this is loV'e at first sight, a nose-dive into a
sea of beautiful Leelas. Things begin to get
interesting after this. (One thing, though.
At this stage, all we let the readers know is
that he gazes at her like a moon-struck calf
and nearly piles up the crock on the roadside.
His pals ~rab the wheel, and keep the thing
on the road. The perfectly gold-fishy app~ar­
ance he presents in his state of agitation does
not endear him to Leela; no, not at all.)
Prema turns away from these misguided
buffoons with. a toss of her head. • That
Ramu Shivram, he is becoming one of the
worst loafers in town. AU the time roaming
round in that tin-can with those frightful
creeps; the ass doesn't realize that everyone
regards him as an .•.••• a •••... an awful
person; , thinking that she can haV'e used a
far stronger word.
• Who's that?' Leela pretends that the
question is of purely academic interest.

of

• That fellow driving that car. He is one
of my brother's classmates ••.. yes, I think
you could call him that. though he never
attends classes •••••. • usw, with the ultimate
disclosure that our friend is of the second year
Engg. of Raghavachar Engg. college. (Don't
tell me that there is no such animal, there is. I
should know: I invented it.) Second Year; has
been and will be for a couple of years to come.
, Why?' asks Leela. Habitual plugging
activities come out into the open •••. of course
accompanied by the reV'elation that he used to
be something like the top of his class in the
not..too·distant past. Dear 01' Leela definitely
expresses her disapproval of the freak •••••.

Scene z
Our pal, the hero. discovers that he has
fallen in no uncertain manner for the Goddess
who flashed before his eyes for a fleeting
moment. He MUST win her .•.. if not he
must surely die. The poor vegetable! But
one thing we must give him credit for is that
he never loses time in thinking about anything
when he can be doing something about it.
With his characteristic dash and vigou.r, he
engineers a meeting with her; much good it
does him, though.
Now how does the meeting go? Let's say
it's at a party. He pressures someone into
jntroducing him to her (or is it her to him?)
A hardly audible 'how do you do ? and off
she goes with someone else. The nut scratches
his nut, and wonders why he has been made
to feel like a particularly loathsome caterpillar
(a hairy one). Undeterred, he asks her if she
will dance with him. Tnt, that is rather unwise of him. • Oh, dance with you? I'm
afraid I can't do that. I have to leave right
now.'
I What,
now? The party has barely
started I I
• And I'm not enjoying it.'
Ramu realizes he is being cold-shouldered
in style. A frosty smile follows •••• his blood
runs hot and cold. I t is more effective than
a whack on the head.
The evening is a fiasco.

Scene 3

*

*

*

The love-lorn gentleman pines away like
nobody's business •••• so much so that his
uncle notices a definite lowering of the
ambient temperature when he ambles into the
living room where Ramu has draped himself
on one of the armchairs. The old cog realizes
that something of frightful proportions is
weighing· heavily on Ramu's mind, driving
him nuts.
• Howdy, son,' says the cheery old specimen,
not at aU put off by the Look he receives. A
look fit to kill Lucifer, if you get me, greets
the old gent.
• Now, there's no need to start distributing
dirty looks just because yotXve been crossed
in love, is there ? '

know? '
, Simple, my dear boy,' beams the ancient
ancestor. 'When you have reached my age,
you ought to be able to say that when a normal, t,rnhealthy young prune like you begins
to imitate Death, there is something of a fishy
nature in the air.' Etc., etc. Ramu pours out
his heart to Unc.
, A wench, eh? Girls come a kiss a dozen.
If this one thinks you're to be left to yourself,
I don't see why you should bother youresl£
about it. Many more where she came
from .••• '
, But Uncle,' wails Ramu, 'I don't love all
of them! Only she ..• .'
, Has that magic with you?' completes Unc
Chak. • Tut, tut, this is an acute case. The
remedy? I suggest you find out why she
despises yoJ .•.•• ' Ramu winces at those
words. 'Okay, Chak,' he squeaks, and
scrambles off on that mission.

•

*

*

Now, the whole thing begins to warm up.
With the discovery that the reason is so and so,
the schemers :;get a move on -to rectify the
fault .••• or t6 convey an opposite impressi~n
to Leela. The picture of a dashing daredeVil,
as intelligent as a march hare, and as brave a
Tom Thumb and Beelzebub put together is
to be built up ill her mind .••. hence the fireworks that foHow.

Scene 4
Old Vne is a great believer in set stages an~
fixed wrestling bouts. So he persuades hiS
protege to indulge in a bit of slightly underhand activity •.•• of course, with the ~est of
intentions. I mean, he wants the kmd of
scene in which the hero comes along just in
time and rescues the heroine from death or
worse •••• or if that is not possible. he rescues
something or somebody near and dear to her.
Ramu puts up stiff resistance to Unc's more
adventurous suggestions, for he ~imply can!l0t
countenance putting his beloved mto any kind
of danger. So the best that the scheming
duo is able to manage is the rescue of a pet ..
mongoose, let's say.
In theory, when a handsome ~oung man
rescues a girl's pet mongoose, she 1S supposed
to experience a maidenlY surge of gratltu~e.
(What? Oh, you object to the I?ongo?se bit,
eh? Well, it doesn't matter, we 11 thInk up
something better before we actually go to
press.) There occurs a hitch. The exact
nature of the hitcIl can be worked out when
we've decided what type of trouble the
mongoose gets into, and how Ramu happens
to be on hand to do his stuff. Supposing we
make Une Chak hire an urchin to grab the
creature and fling it out into the middle of a
lake or something? No good, e.h? Awright,
I'll change it. Anyhow the essence of the
whole thing is that one of those eternal 'buts'
takes a hand to knock their well~laid plans on
the head. In the flux of the ensuing fun we
make it clear to. the readers that things are left
WOrse than they were.
oj$

'"

'"'

Having seen Plan I go haywire, the readers
will be expecting Plan no. II to go haywire
too. We'll surprise them. The corny plan
actually works t. That brings us to the plan itself. Drat! Why didn't I think of that
before? Ummmm •••• Plan, plan, where are
you? Got itl Unc Chad, advises the young
hound to try the sincere approach. Go speak
to her, explain himself •••• and aU those misleading things she might have heard about
him. The way I'm going to tell it, they'll
swallow it.
Scene 5The sincere approach, as I was saying. He cor- .
nen her nt her college library. Leela pretends to
be very much annoyed at his sudden appearance.
She pointedly slams a book back into place, and
heads for another shelf. Ramu, not at all put off,
folIows her.
, I say, Miss Krishnan, you've been avoiding me.
Ever since I saw you, I've wanted to know more
about you • • . . tell me, am I all that unbeatable l'
, We are not the types who could make friends.
And I don't see the point in wasting one's time in
small-talk. A certain amount of politeness to
strangers is customary, but at this rate, I doubt
whether you can be classed in that category for
long ••.•• '

(Conti.

01£

p. 14)

