14
'LcJok here. You think I am all kinds of a rotter.
You must have heard odd things about me •••••
come now, confess. You haven't given me a fair
chance-you've allowed ;yourself to be influenced by
what the general crowd thinks and 5ays. • .'
This is something that hasn't ,struck Leela before.
She turns the thought over in her mind. She
pauses a moment before murmuring, ' What if? '
• There you are I You really don't know what
kind of chap I am, do you? I assure you, • says the
confident fellow, • I'm quite e.xtraordinIU"Y.. • • .'
• Are you? . • • ' whispers Leela with a strange
look in her eyes. She bites her lip thoughtfully.
• W(luld you care to do me a favour 1 '
, Anything on earth! Just name it.'
Leela, the high spirited girl that she is, sees in
Ramu a possible solution to a problem that has
been troubling her for a few days • • • • • how to
get her own back at the Professor of Anatomy in
her college. This horrendous ape, in the height of
his warped sense of humour, has had' a most un~
wise dig at Leela in the Anatomy class. (Yes, that
should go well: I Imow quite a few such speci~
mens.) As I said, Leela sees possibilities. • • • •
She looks up at Ramu and smiles. The poor guy
trembles from top to toe. He marvels at the
creation wrought by Nature in the form of the
breathtaking vision that stands before him. He
just manages to get a grip on himself before he
• • • • • Yon got the point 1 He is in an enviable
state of ecstaSy.
• Oh it's nothing, really. Just 8 matter of tanning the hide of an overgrown clown. He was
rather rude to me, you see.'
• Lead me to him I I'll tear his limbs apart, the
animal! Gtrrn. . .'
• I don't think it'll be necessary to search for
him. Here he comes.'
• Who? That moron? '
• No. Over there; coming along that corridor.'
Ramu gulps twice at the sight of the professorial
visage, but does a masterly job of looking unconcerned. 'Shall I chuck him down the stairs? '
Brave words. 'That would be rather crude, I
think. No. I've thought of a far better way
of cooking his goose. but it needs someone like
you to carry out the plan • • .'
Ramu goes a deep mauve with pride.
Another of those enigmatic little smiles from
Leela. 'C?me with ~e, I'll tell you what to d?
••••• thlS way •••
No we come up against a matter of policy, Hav{ng placed our hero in such «n inter~tin{f position, should we or should , ... e not let thmgs go
.as 11e would have wanted it 1 Hamlet found
some difficulty in answering a similar question, if I
remember my Shakespeare right. We are in no
better Ii position. Shall we, or shall we not 1
Tell me if what I outline sounds odd.
Scene 6:
'Well, there's the plan.'
< 'Beautiful I , breathes Ramu. 'Genius. TeU me,
how did you get stuck in a place like this,
apprenticing 'Yow:self to this 611.wbones colony?
With your brains and beauty, you should be some~
where far up the cosmic scale instead of being
ground under the heel of any Professor of Anatomy
who cares to tread. I •• .'
Leela is laughing softly. 'I can think of far
.subtler ways of paying compliments .... '
'Not me. I like to say whatever I think.' Ramu
15 getting bolder every minute. 'For instance,
'When I look at you, 1 get the most unllettling of
feelings. A stange desire to •. '
'That is quite enough! Boys, boysl Every onc of
1:hem has a deplorable tendency to yammer fit to
burst if a girl but glances at him. Not very creditable.'
• Oh, but you don't understand I I'd trade my
.chances of imort~lity for just an opportunity to
prove to you ••.
• My, my! That was mighty poetical. Come,
now. What do you expect to prove r No, don't
,answer! You just polish off that old crank.'
• Leave that to me. He'n soon wish that he was
horn in some other geological era.'
'The Age of Reptiles I , sl1e smites delightedly.
"That would suit him immensely. All those brontosaud. and gorgosauri would welcome him as a
lost brother.'
• Eh? Oh I' Ramu is bowled over completely
by that smile. A whiff of perfume makes him real.
• Good luck,' says she, leaning forward.
Ramu, never much good Ilt keeping his head
'loses all remnants of self-control. A rough, wild,
·embrace and a fierce kiss ••••
.scene 7:

(1 dont know,' groans Ramu, morosely. 'There'!!,
·some objection to whatever I can think up .• !
• That's where YQU make )'Qur mi$take, young
man. You don't have to .. think up" anything.
Why not do the natural thing? What do you want
to do?'
, Want to do? Why I ... I want to gather her
in my arms and smother her with kisses ana tell
her how much I love her and how I'll die without her ••• '
, Stop I You've been seen too many Western
'lnovies. But I understand your ••. er, feelings.
And you think that if you do just that, she'll knock
'your beautiful block off ? '
'Unclel Do you have to rub it in ~ ,
'I suggest you are just imagining her distaste
.for you ....
'No, no I She wouldn't have slapped me--' he
stops short, a reddish tint showing through the
.rich <:hocolate-brown texture of his skin.
• Oh, you have already tried something of the
-sort, have you? Quick work, Ramu. So she
slapped you? You offended her sense of pro-priety •••• sounds promising.
'Hal promising, he saysl 1 never saw anything
'Iess promising. She actually told me that I was
:.a boor and a cad \' the agony in his tone is intense.

l February,

CAMPAST1M.ES
• Gids, girls! They don't know what they're
talking about. They say one thing when they mean
just the reverse. Had you but kissed her again •••
by the way, that is what you did 1 '
The stuffed-frog look on Ramu's face lightens
for a second as he thinks of That Moment; then,
a stifled sigh escaping him, he nods.
•A pity. That's definitflly the right approach.
I should know .• .'
• No uncle. You don't understand. She thinlcs
of me as something worse than a plague germ, if
there's such a thing. She's too high~minded to
love anything like me .•. Oh my God I •
• There, there I I'm sure something can be
done •• .'
ACT 11
Scene I:
Now hairy developments start popping up all
over the place.
Ramu's Pop drops in one fine day after his visit to
Bombay. He takes a long look at his hulking great
son, and notices the chap's appearance. • I know
what,' says the screwy l?arent to himself, 'the
young cabbage needs a Wife. Why didn't I think
of that before? Wasn't I married when I wasjust
eighteen? Twenty-one is enough to make him II
Romeo .•• if I don't get him a wife now, he'll get
mixed up' with some awful female or the other.'
So, he. calls his secretary and asks him to contact
all the famous marriage-brokers in town ..• and
elsewherfl, too. 'Yessirl' says the secretary and
scoots off.

Scene z
'Ramu, have you ever thought of getting
married? '
, Eh, married ~ Er ••• to tell you the t~uth, yes.
But •• .'
, But?'
• Oh nothing, really. It all depends on whethe1'
I find the right girl, doesn't it? And whether
she'll have me? >
'Hold ani Where did you get hold of these
new-fangled notions 1 It doesn't depend at all.
Our traditional way of doing the whole thing has'
evolved through the centuries and has rea~hed a
highly perfected state. One word to the right
persons, and a beautiful. intelligent, accomplished
lind wealthy girl wiII be your bride. The dowry
would be yours to name.'
Ramu has a sickly expression on his face as he
mutters, 'But doesn't that sort of restrict the
choice? I mean, very few wealthy girls will have
1111 the other qualities mentioned ..• hard to find ••.
and they may say no I ' He brightens up with
the last few words.
• Not if I know anything about it \' snorts his
father. • By this date next month, the fonnalities will have been completed. Marriage is going
to make a responsible man out of you. So that's
fixed. \Vell, oongratttlations son !'
• But Daddy, I just can't go through with it \ '
• Why on earth not ? '
• I . • . er. • • I can't marry any girl but the
one I love.'
• Eh, what's this? Love? Madness is more like it.
So you have got mixed up with a female, have you? '
• Daddy! She is not a .. female". She is the
most glorious girl in the world. If I can't marry
ner, I won't marry at all ! '
, Izzat sO ?! We'll see I '
(We'll see.)

Scene-

ACTID

• Change the number plates. They'll find the
car harder to trace then.' Cheenu is enjoying himself. Unc Chak and Ramu have roped him in to
help with the execution of Unc's latest 'plan'.
• Okay. AU set?' Ramu'!; voice holc;ls a vibrant
edge that gives away his e:rc:citement. • Lead on.
Macduff I ' gtowls Chak ftom the renr seat. • For
heaven's sake, don't run into a tree or something:
cautions Cheenu. Seconds later, they ate roaring
down a road at So m.p.h. A thought flits through
Ramu's mi~d. 'What if :he tells us to §o to hell? •
The full meaning of what she has just heard
sinks into her head slowly. He had meant every
word of what he had said, after all. Otherwise
why should he run away II week before his weddiniJ
is 6cheduled to take place? Poor Ramu, fotced
against his will to martY a girl he does not love I
And tQ think that she has thought of him as an
unspeakable rogue all this while I • Cheenu, you're
not fooling me ? '
, Cross my heart, and whatever else you want
me to do. This is in deadly earnest.'
'Wbere is he now ? '
• I don't really know. I just received a telephone
call from him early this morning •••••. Well,
I'd better hurry along lind let his parents know
that he hasn't done any harm to himself.'
• What ~ He wouldn't do anything smy ? I '
• Difficult to say. He's been awfully moody of
late. And 1 don't blame him. What is a man to
do when it looks as if his whole life's happiness is
to be ruined at one fell blow? '
As Cheenu wallts away down the street, Leela
stares .fixedlY in front of her. 'Whatever have I
done? ' she whispers.
• About time we start on Phase II.'
• Okay Chak. You're the boss.'
< GirI~psychologist.
That's me.'
SCENE? (Forget it. I've lost track of these
things for some time.)
• Leela, I just had to see you 1 Don't l'augh at
me. I know I'm acting like all kinds of fool •••
but it doesn't seem to matter any more since you
• • • . Can you ever forgive me for that mad act
(If mine? •

1969

• Wasn't I as much to blame?' she laughs
nervously. 'Why did you run away' ? Or
shouldn't I ask ? '
• Need I say? Isn't it obvious? Louse as I
am, 1 have to live with myself for the rest of my
life. . • • much life!' his tone is bitter. • I sup~
pose I never was shaping up to be anything
worth mentioning. • • . 1 can't imagine anyone
being m\lch affected by my absence, except may
be Mom. Well, no\V that I've seen you just once
more, 1 don't know what remains for me to
do • • • .' He sniffs artistically.
He gocs up to her, lifts up her downcast face,
and murmurs brokenly, • Goodbye, Leela. 1 hope
you are happy •• .'
A moment later, he is gone.
Chak almost falls out of the taxi in his hurry to
~~:neo~ow
yells to the driver, 'Hold on, I'll

Iff

Leela is at the door to meet him. < You're
Ramu's uncle, aren't you?'
'Yes, yes,' comes the breathless reply. • And
you must be Leela. That fool Rmnu lS going to
do something serious to himself if we don't stop
him. Arguivg with him is no good. Right now
Cheenu is holding him by brute force . • . tied hinl
up or somethhlg ••. but how long can we Iceep
this up? You must help us .. .'
'What can I do ~' she asks trenmlously. Chak
looks steadily at her. ' Y Oll J\llOW,' he asserts.
A hardly perceptible nod of her head teUs him all
he wants to know. (I)
'Fourth floor,' impatience makes Chak's voice
harsh. t Hurry up.'
Four or five people arc hu~rying up to the lift.
The lift boy decides to wait for them, in spite of
Chllk's groans.
Suddenly a frigid expression crosses Leela's face.
'.My ~atherl' she inhales sharply. Chak is hardly
hstemng to her. Ramu's father and the two
detectives he has hired are close behind the leading
man's heels. Chak's gaping like a goldfish at this
unexpected turn of events.
'Chakl'
'Leelal'
'Please get in sir.'
The lift starts upwards with a jerk. Chait's
mind is stm in a whirl. The dim ycIlow light
gets. dimmllr and dies away. The lift stops
mOVIng.
Power-failure. Ye Gods, this style is killing mel
(H:ere's how Oful Foepa thinks it should be
ended.)
ACT IV
Scene :1::
The nadhaswarams are fully launched in their
serpentine flight across the host of semitones
their span. Mridhangams stutter in the coils of
their rythmic discord. :Faces defocus into one
kaleidoscopic smear. A pulsating stream of mean~
ingless syllables swells and fades .•.••• The priestly
voice is insistent.
'Eh?'
'PleMe take the" thali " and ••. '
, Oh I' He turns his head round to see the gill.
Her eyes are downcast. A painful lump rises to
his throat in the tumult of his thoughts.
His fingers are trembling Violently as he takes
the golden chain from the platter. He pauses a
moment to try to steady himself. Through the
haze of the shimmering smoke in front of him, D
familiar face crystallizes •••••. a smile and an
upward-pointing thumb prove stangely comforting.
• Good old Cheeou!' thinks he. Is this tougher
to read than to write?
Scene ~:
A smile of satisfaction is spread over the elder
Shivram's face. 'A perfect match,' he rumbles to
Chak. • beautiful, intelligent, accomplished. Fine
family; lots of money. What more could anyone
want? By the way. since when ha.ve you known
themi'
A thoughtful frown answers him. • Difficult to
say, you kn6w. Quite some time, l.should say.'
The other's grin broadrms. 'Perhaps it was
for the best that we got stuck in that lift for halfan-hour. It gave us enough time to settle all the
formalities. •
Chak shuddel's at the memory. Says he to himself, • I've never had to think so fast in my life!
Nor utter so many lies I Pretending I knew
Krishnan, introducing them, putting the idea into
their heads, pushing them on .•• Ugh II •
Ramq's father gives him a violent slap on his
back. • Chak, you're a genius!' Chak chokes over
his betel leaves.

in

Scene 3:
Time: 0. week later.
Chak is lying torpid in an armchair, full of lunch.
A blissful afternoon's snooze is hovering tantaIi~ingly near. Someone tiptoes mto the :room. • I
say, C!lakl'
'Wassat? '
'Chak, you must help me. For heavens' sake,
wake up will you?'
.
< Okay, o,kayl
Wassamatter?'
• You put everything right for Ramu ; how about
doing the same stunt for me ? '
• Good Lord I You don't say I Which of the
fair sorcerers has cast her spell on you? Cheenu,
you should have known better than to follow in
Ramu's footsteps I '
, She is the sweetest angel that evcr walked, on
earth. ~y, life was devoid Qf purpose till 1 saw
her •••.
• Stop this disgusting exhibition immediately I
You're woise than Ramu, if such 0. thing is possi~
bIe. God, what have I, done to deserve this? '
• Think up Plan I fast. I'm in a hurry to start.'
'By the way. who is she l'
• Her name is Prema ••• .'
-FOOTS.

