16

l February, 1969

CAMPASTIMES

Story

beper
, Lcper l' It was no mOl'e than a startled whisper from the old man who had
On Shankaran's ears it fell with the intensity of a thunderbolt,
Spmmng around he pounced on the man and pummelled him with a ferocity that
was terdfying to behold. It took five men to prise the poor victim loose.

jus~ b?arded the bus.

When the bus topped at Payyanad, it was
raining heavily. Without folding up his dhoty
at the knees, Shankaran stepped out onto the
slushy road. As he walked away, his shirtsleeves roled down and head bent forward,
it was impossible to detect the repu Isive
sores that covered his body. Walking rapidly,
he made his way to the Leprosarium. Passing
through the deserted compound he reached
the 'entrance to the sprawling, ancient
building. He paused, suddenly frightened
and unsure of himself. As he stood there
uncertainly, a hiu'assed-Iooking nUrse appeared
and without asking any questions bec1mned
to him to follow. She led him through a
maze of dark, musty corridors to the office
of the doctor. When he entered, the doctor,
a man of about sixty who had spent a lifetime in the service of lepers, looked up and
smiled. Suprised that anyone could look at him
without a shudder Shankaran tried unsuccessfully to smile back. The doctor gently put.
h~m at ease and soon Shankaran, haltingly at
first but with graduaUy increasing confidence,
was pouring out the story of his life.
Shankaran was born prematurely, a sickly
and under-sized baby, It was before incubators and other sophisticated prediatric aids
had become common and it was a week before
he was given an even chance of survival.
Survive he did, but from that early stage,
his physical deveJopmem turned out to be
severely retarded. At the age of six he was
no bigger than a three-year old baby and
when others of his age went to school
Shankaran stayed at home, learning unsteadily
to walk. However, no effort was spared in
the attempt to accelerate his rate of growth.
First, on the advice of a doctor and much
to the disgust of his orthodox house~hold. he
had been put on a rich non-vegetarian diet.
At the end of two years the fact that not all
the meat in the world would enable him to
grow 'normally, was sorrowfully accepted.
Next, S11ankaran enrolled in the local gymna"
sium. He exercised with religious regularity
but never got beyond doing pull-ups. Not
-even the monkey-liver extract on which he
had been fed since birth contributed a trifle
to his growth. At the age of twenty, his
pathetically ludicrous height of four feet and
half an inch belied all hope that he would
-eventually develop into a normal man.
On his first day at school, Shankaran was
ironically nic1mamed "Shima (the strong-man
·of the Mahnbharata). He was subjected to
numeroUs thoughtless cruelties by his schoolfellows who regarded him as a hilarious joke
of nature. But in a few weeks they got used
to the puny dwarf, who was too weak to carry
his own booJes, and accepted him as a matter
-of course. In class, it soon became apparent
that Shankaran was of only average intelligence.
-There was no cause for hope that sheer
-bri1liance of intellect would enable him to
-compensate for the misfortune of his malformation. But if there was one quality of
which Shankaran had abundant share, it was
determination. It was his iron-clad resolve
that one day he would make others call him
• Bhima ' not in sarcasm but in admiration.
He pictured to himself the day when he could
walk out of his house without attracting those
offensive stares and coarse remarks to which
he had long grown accustomed. AssiduousJy
he attempted remedy after remedy.
He was beginning to lose faith when he
heard of the
manthravady , (literally
magician) in Malabar. This man came of a
distinguished line of physicians who dabbled
in magic and occultism. He was reported to
I

have effected numerous cures that bordered
on the miraculous. Very few who went to
him, it was said, returned disappointed; such
was the potency of his combination of magic
and medicine. With renewed hope Shankaran
set out. He prayed fervently that at least
now his apparently interminable quest for
normalcy would end.
Shankaran reached his destination with
scepticism and hope alternately dominating
his mood. .J\pprehensively he entered the
house of the Manthravady. He had imaginatively expected the magician to possess an
appearance in keeping with his profession.
But the actual perSOll was in 110 way sinister
or evil-looking. He listened to Shankaran's
account of his infirmity entranced, now and
then asking a probing, penetrating question.
He clearly considered this case a challenge,
the like of which he had never encountered.
It was the supreme test of his worth as a
healer. He sat deep in thought a few minutes
after Shankaran finished speaking, Then
asking him to wait, he got up and went into
the interior of the house. It was fully an
hour later that he re-appeared, bringing an
amulet and a dried palm-leaf on which a
prescription was scratched. The amulet, he
told Shankaran, was to be worn constantly
around the wrist; and according to the
prescription a herbal medicine was to be
brewed, to be consumed with regularity over
a period of five years, As he prepared to
(eave, grateful but stilI sceptical, the
manthravady uttered two solemn warnings:
one, that the removal of the amulet from
the wrist at any time during the Cure would
amount to desecration and two, that the
medicine was to be prepared in strict
accordance with the prescription.
Shankaran had no difficulty in concocting
the mixture. After tying the amulet around
his wrist, he drank the first dose. Immediately
he was siezed by a violent convulsion.
Writhing ill agony, his arms and legs flailing,
he was thrown to the ground. I t was an
entire week later that he was able to stand
up again. Then, instead of throwing away
the medicine he consumed another dose.
But that time, as if to vindicate his intuition,
there was not the slightest reaction, Thereafter, with unwavering faith, Shankar an
began the regular use of the manthravady's
medicine. Whenever the old stock was
exhausted, he made a fresh supply according
to the prescription with the utmost care.
The results of this new treatment were
neglible in the first few months. Then
Shankaran began to notice that his shirts
seemed to have shrunk and that he no longer
had to stretch as much as before to reach
the shelf in the kitchen. From then on his
body developed with a vengeance. In a year
his height increased spectacularly to just
over six feet. His muscles, once atrophied
and powerless, now rippled like those of a
prize-fighter. From a ridiculous runt, he
was transformed incredibly into a giant)
easily the biggest and strongest man in his
village. And accompanying these physical
changes was a change in Shankaran's mind.
For the first time in his life he was happydeliriously so. He moved to the town and
soon found a job. The future was no longer
bleak. but abundant with promise.
Shankaran had been in the town two
years. He still drank the old medicine, but
irregularly. When he mixed it he no longer
took the same amount of trouble and care.
And of course he had thrown away the
amulet. A young man couldn't walk around

town with a ch~rm around his wrist, could
he? Meanwhile at home his parents had
arranged his marriage and Shankaran prepared
to leave for the village. On the day of his
departure he awoke feverish and racked with
pain. The tips of his fingers and toes were
swollen and itching. Regretfully putting
off his journey, he went to the Government
hospital. There the young doctor was clearly
bafled by his complaint. He gave Shankaran
some skin-ointment and told him to return
two days later. But next - morning
Shankaran's body was numb with pain. To
his shock he found that the sores had begun.
to suppurate. The finger-tips especially
were filled with pus. Alarmed, he decided t~
consult the skin-spec::ialist at the Mission
hospital a few miles away. Then suddenly
the truth struck his simple mind with the
force of a stunning blow. He was a leper!
Anyone could tell that his disease was leprosy
The pain. the sores, the pus, they ali
screamed the fact aloud. In a panic, he
~ecollected all.t~at he had heard about leprosy:
It was t~e dlsea~e .most feared by man, it
was pumshment lfifhcted by the Gods it was
fatal, there was not the slightest ch~nce of
recovery. Desperately he prayed for guidance.
Three days later Shankal'an left for his
village. He had a plan. As soon as possible
he would write to the manthravady. Surely
he would be able to help. When Shankaran
reached the village, the first thing he did was
to meet the local physician, because he had
begun to nurse a faint hope that his disease
might not be leprosy after all. But the man
took one look at his purulent finger-tips and
screamed hysterical1y at him to get out.
Before he reached his house the whole village
was'afire with the news that one among them
was a Jeper. The very next day Sankaran's
father was summoned to a meeting with a
group of village elders. These men were
the representatives of a people bogged down
in superstition, prejudices and blind ignorance.
Not only illiterate but misinformed, they
entertained wildly cruel misconceptions about
leprosy. According to tradition if a man
contracted thei disease he was not allowed
to set foot in the village again. The elders
saw no reson why they should break with
tradition this time. In plain language they
delivered their ultimatum. Shankaran was
to leave the village immediately. It would
be useless and dangerous to disobey.
Shankaran moved into a haunted hO\\S6 on
the outskirts of the village. Sitting in solitude
hour after hour, day alter day, he brooded
over the blows fate had dea~t him. One day
the boy who brought him food once a week
gave him a letter. It was from Malabar and
said briefly that the old Manthravady Was
dead, Shankaran's spirit was crushed.
Gradually his mind grew to be affected by
a disease more vicious than that which ravaged
his body, For hours at a stretch he would
sit motionless, staring into the distance with
unseeing eyes. Then by a sudden transformation he would become a screaming. raging
animal, tearing and beating at everything he
saw. So fierce was he in these moods that
he once choked to death a stray dog that
had come in pilfer his food. After a spell
of violence he would begin to brood again
and then the whole cycle would be repeated.
Shankaran had been living as an outcast
for a year, when one day he received a note
and some money from his father. The old
man had come to hear of the Leprosarium
at Payyanad and of how it offered refuge to
all those stricken by the disease. He urged
his son to go there at once. It did not take
Shankaran long to reach a decision. He
urgently needed medical help. Even if he
could not be cured, he reasoned, life there
among others like himself would be infinitely
preferable to that which he led now. Moreover
he realized that solitary confinement was
steadily driving him towards physical and
mental collapse. He decided to leave for
Payyanad immediately.

to

'*

>M=

iIIt

The doctor's eyes were filled with underG~
tanding and compassion as he prepared to
examine Shankaran. But half an hour later
his expression was one of shock and utter

(Coliti1lued

Oil

p. 3, col. 3)

