18

CAMAPST'IMES
- [ Febru~;';'
--~------------------------------~.

PHILATELY

eulfural Weeh Special Issues
,r.

....
you._

-~

-

POSTAGE

"

IITion Culture
We claim to belong to the higher strata of
society in our country-elevated in aU aspects
of activity and ~ehaviour. We are intellectuals
with tons of knowledge packed in our btains.
Now let us tell you something mOre about
our interests and activities. After reading
about them you will probably be able to truly
appreciate us.
Today themE:-dia of mass culture (especially
the cinema) are tending to break. down the
{lId barriers of taste and tradition dissolving
all cultural distinctions. Rarely do we see
-cinema that stirs something inside us (though
we admit that we are sometimes carried away
by fistfights or actresses crooning) or opens
before us a new vista which we have not per~
-ceived before'. The cinema Producers are not
to be blamed. They are spinning out celluloid
not for us but for the greater part of the
audience-the mass. N aturally we cannot
expect anything intellectually stimulating in a
cinema.
Literature. Ah, that's something we left
behind at school (good old school). Nowadays we set our eyes mostly on newspapers
and thrillers (we won't hold up our noses
until we have finished the one we are reading.)
We read the newspapers and magazines and
<:urse politicians and hockey sportsmen.
By • nice' music most of us naturally mean
the loud pop variety that forces itself into our
ears forcing us to appreciate the' terrific' beat.
Did you say something about the classical
music? Well, we can tell you about it.
Classical Music needs a cultivated ear. We
have neither the time nar the patience tp
evolve to that stage of becoming connoisseurs
of that high-brawed variety yet. Discussion
on any topic other than the newsmakers we
loathe. Anybody who persists in talking
about other things is a bore. We can talk
about the Lecturer X and the grades he gives
for hours. We can talk about the Hostel Y
and the food it gives for hours.
Poe~ry, Art and Drama are remote forms
that some of us are conscious of. Most of

a

us are blissfully ignorant of Art, what it
means or can convey. W~ don't have the
leisure to spare for poetry and we don't have
the eye to appreciate drama. Of Course we
are proficient in just sitting tight, cynical of
everything around, you know. .
We are so enthusiastic during college meetings that we have no control over voices.
They ring out high pitched and clearsounds that have no immediate meaning
attached to them-sounds of protest against
somebody exhibiting his talents on the stage.
'It is the bursting of a thought •• the Maharishi
tells us. That is a simple method to avoid
hearing the monotonous tone of the actor.
Having to get up to walk out of the hall is
too much of a strain.
It is January 2nd. The reopening day.
The Lecturer walks into the classroom.
There are two or three feebly attempting to
stand up. Others remain firmly glued to
their seats. The Lecturer glances at the
class briefly and begins • Last term we were
talking about .....• '. One or two faint
murmurS of resentment. Then we all open
our files and start ·scribbling down what he
says or writes on the blackboard as though
nothing has happened. We aren't children
to exchange pleasanries like • Happy new
year' with the teachers. In the classroom we
should meet on strictly business terms.
Cultutal Week? You mean those evenings
when we see interesting people from other
co1teg~s ? Of course we look forward to them.
We wIll be present during those functions in
full strength and give those who represent our
Institute all our support. But of course we
won't stick any 'kidstuff' on the stage. Remember our tastes are highly refined and we
can't spare our time for anything lesser than
the best.
Now I hope you have got an idea about how
cultured we are (Curiously enough we have
just realised that we have many interests in
common with our neighbours in Velacheri).
-

VENKATESH MANNAR.

THE SAFETY ENGINEER
The lathes spun on, the cash poured in,
The hammers 'worked, 'twas quite a din,
But all was well with James and Co.
Results: they had plenty to show.
Until John put his hand one day,
Right in the poor li"! Bandsaw's way.
Little Bandsaw could not this bear
So John one finger less does wear.
Pandemonium did break loose,
WorkerI'; did no more to work choose.
'There is no safety in this plant,
Work here? No, we really can't.'
The Management said ( Have no fear I
We'll get a Safety Engineer '.
And they chose a dynamic man,
Whose name was Patrick Adithan,
Pat came, Pat saw, Pat did not like.
Pat swore. Pat murmured' For God's sike!
Can't they maintain a safer plice ?
Gaurds for these machines would be wise.·
Listening to workers' cries,
He made a photo-cell device.
If one came near Bandsaw at all.
Covering her, a dome would fall.
Her being made automatic,
I think really did the trick.
After days, work could be commenced,
Safety, in the air could be sensed.
The small plant worked only one shift
The passage of eight hours was swift.
At shift's end, to switch off Banclsaw,
Came in person, owner Mcd:.tw.
Well, Pm sure you guess what took place,
You ghould have se:!n Adithan's face.
For when one approaches Bandsaw,
The dome covers her with no flaw.
So, to date, the machine runs on,
Though eight kids, to Pat have been born,
Of Pat's nine mistakes, Number one.
Is the dome that can't be undone.
Dear Reader please do not doubts raise,
And question, why in the first place,
One could not just switch off the mains
For Pat askS me, 'Why take the pains? '.

S.

RAMAJAYAM.

[We are pleased to publish this story by
Rarnajayam, alias Local; he was the secretary
of our Publications Committee in I9 66-67.
Elsewhere in this issue is a letter from
him.-Ed.J

Edited by K. Kalyanaraman, Published by Prof. S. Sampath and Printed by C. E. Koshy at the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

