My Teachers
T.

GOPICHAND

A mere subjective statement of my experiences in life is of no use to others. But, if
I can objectively view my experiences, eliminating my personality, and seek for what is
fundamental and basic in my interactions with others, I might find something useful, to be good
enough to write for the benefit of others. However, when I want to write about my teachers,
good, bad and indifferent, I find it very difficult to view my experiences objectively. I wish to
write about my teachers, whom I remember during the last 30 years, for whatever influences
they have brought into my life. The relationship between the teacher and the taught is so very
personal that I beg of the readers to excuse me, if I state something as very significant, which the
readers might find as commonplace.
Man learns by observation, by hearing, throughout his hfe time. Probably in the first
ten years of one's life, this faculty of learning is most active. However,what one learns in those
formative years is mostly linked wLth the instinct for survival.
What I remember during the
first ten years of my life, regarding the primary school teachers during the yeais 1937-42, is that
the teachers, whom lloved, were patient and humble. I had my primary school education in a
village; and one of the teachers, I still remember, was so very patient, humble and good; and
as I grew up, I realized that he was never successful in life, that is, in making money, but
he was respected by one and all in the VIllage. When I look back now to dig from my memory
as to the impressions I got during those formative years, besides the knowledge, I learned
that a certain degree of respect for a humble and patient teacher is synonymous with the process
of learning. However much I try, I cannot express my feelings, any the better, 'since they are
all Impressions on the sub-conscious mind.
For my high school education during 1942-47, I moved to a nearby town. I had a
mixed variety of teachers, who excited my mind. From amongst the good teachers-I use the
word "good" with all caution and in the sense I mean it-we had a teacher for teaching Telugu.
Teaching of Telugu in those days had a peculiar problem. Later on I came to know from my
friends of other Indian language groups that they had also noticed similar problematic
tendencies. It was always considered to be easy to pass the examination in it and so quite a few
have never paid any attention to a Telugu teacher in a class room. It was stupid, but true, that
even failing in Telugu was considered to be an "achievement" equated to the degree of
recklessness of a student. However, the teacher, I remember, was a poet. In most of his
classes, I~ think, he never followed the text. He delivered all his lectures extempore, matching
the pieces he was discussing with his own subtle wit and humour. A good teacher teaches more
than the syllabus of the subject he is asked to teach. I learned two things from him: one, the
love of poetry and beauty in language, and secondly, patience. I might narrate an anecdote.
One day he was teaching the class; and as usual I was very attentive. I was sitting by the side of
a door. He stopped his lecture and called me by name and asked me to close the door, as it was
making a noise. I was irritated because his lecture was interrupted. I got up and banged the

