2

door; but no sooner had I sat down to listen than the door opened again. My teacher laugbed
and said "Never do thtngs In a hurry. Control yourself". I remember this incident, and the
moral, too.
We had to select an optional subject in the fifth form. So I showed up in the Physics
Laboratory one day and requested the Physics teacher that I be given this elective subject.
That was my first meeting with him. He was a clean short person, who looked much younger
than his age. He looked up and asked "Do you want Physics? Can you spell the word in
English?" This I successfully did, since I always used to look at the name plate on physics
laboratory with admiration. What this teacher taught me (besides physics) is discipline in a
laboratory. We used to have the laboratory class every Friday. By Monday morning, the
observation note book (with the practical written up) should be on his table. No excuses were
accepted. He used to correct it-scientific, linguistic and illegible writing mistakes in red ink and
used to return it by Wednesday. It should be fair-copied into the record book and submitted
on Friday morning. Mistakes in fair copying were more severely dealt with. I was all admiration for him, even though it meant hard work for me; and he was a hard task master. We
had an anticlimax to the physics teacher in the teacher who taught us English. While the
former teachers' objective was to enforce discipline, only in a manner it was needed, our
English teacher's objective was only to shout and enforce discipline for no reason. It is perhaps
needless to mention, he did a bad job in teaching and also in maintaining discipline. Looking
back, what I feel now is that those who have something of their own to say or teach always
command attentiveness from their students. Why and how this occurs, I do not know, but
I have seen it happening all the time.
During 1947-49, I had my College education in a bigger town. I had certainly learned
more of the subjects and started developing my own likes and dislikes, but I had few teachers
who excited me. Probably one of the reasons was that there were 60 students in some classes and
120 students in some others. The Principal did leave some happy impressions. I asked for
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry option, even though I bad not taken Maths as my optional
subject in High School. He said I could take it at my own risk, which I readily accepted and
did all the best. Creating a challenging situation for the young WIth no rules binding every
body, is what I lIked in this coilege.
During 1949-1953, I moved to a University to get my Bachelor's and Master's degrees.
As thc primary and secondary education gives us what is necessary to live, I believe the University
education should make a Inan realize his mental capabilities. I consider myself fortunate, for,
the university education gave this benefit to me. I believe that tbis had ~een possible because
there were a few dedicated teachers - teachers who not only taught me the subject matter of
their courses, but made roe use my mind, and at the same time also taught me some noble things
in life.
The teacher, about whom I write first, is a man who made me realise that learning
depends as much on my efforts as on his. He used to explain a derivation from the books, used
to do it himself without the book, used to ask me to do it without the book. The final step in
his teaching was to ask me to do it in a different manner.
His method of teaching is to
emphasize that how well a thing is 1earned IS more important than how much is chewed up.
I have also learned from him the etiquette in life. He taught me how to do gravimetric analysis

