3
carefully and patiently. In the final examination he was the skilled assistant. His results and my
results differed very much. He called a third party to analyse the solid sample. The third
man got an entirely different result. The mistake in the test was finally traced to the uneven
distribution of the impurity in the solid sample. I was given low marks. But to this day I
'consider him to be a dedicated teacher, who taught me many things. This training gave me
a lesson that marks in an examination are not the important thing, but what is learned as a
skiJl in the laboratory is. Exams are perhaps a necessary evil, with which teacners and students
have to learn to live.
I had another teacher, from whom I learned that teachers also have to work hard,
since they have to teach more than what is given in books. He was very diligent in his
preparation, and in his lectures he was extremely frank in telling us what he knew and
what he did not know.
L;stening to his classes was like travelling on the boundaries of
knowledge, digesting thoroughly what is known and ready to probe the unknown. I had
also learnt from him that research means investigating an idea and making all efforts to
succeed. When I did my Masters's degree project with him, I posed a question and suggested
a new idea. Many of the colleagues in the discussion group discouraged me by saying
that if I wanted to try something new, I might consider working for the Master's degree
for a longer period. But this teacher told me to go ahead and try for it and not to bother
about time. I was lucky that I had succeeded; and I have Jearnt that mind works
more effiCiently, if one can forget time and other minor nuisances in ]ife. That was my
first crack at research and afterwards, 1 always used to exert myself to try new ideas in
research. The same teacher used to teach us thermodynamics. In one of his .class examinations,
all of us (about twenty students) gave blank papers, went off to coffee house, feeling very
proud that we pulled a dirty trick on him. The next week when classes started, the teacher
told us, that he was very thankful to us, since we saved his time in marking the horrible things
we might have written. This had a profound impression on my mind and till this day I believe
that a teacher and his students are like the two faces of a coin. What is good for one is good
for another and what is bad for one IS also bad for another.
I have had good teachers and bad teachers in the University. While the former
taught me how I could gain knowledge qUickly, the latter also benefited me to know the
unsuccessful methods in seeking knowledge. As years went by, I realized that teaching and
learning is a communication process which requires attunement between the teacher and the
taught, and that there should exist a level difference in knowledge. In a class of one teacher
and some given number of students, it is an improbable situation that one individual can at
the same time perform this task with all the students. So what we call "good" and "bad"
is a hIghly specific pairwise property which cannot easily be a veraged to be really
meaIl1ngful.

During 1953·56, I started my teaching career, even as I worked for my Doctorate
degree. What I learned from my research guide is that "inspiration and perspiration" play
an equally important part in research. He taught me to get rid of all complacency and
made me work with a singlemindedness. I have learnt in his lab., that good organjsation
and team work are necessary prerequisites for quality in research. He always used to say "Make
your hair grey; break your head on the wall; do what you like, an answer to this question has to
be found". No excuses for not doing a thing were ever accepted.

