4
Though my formal education as a student was officially over by 1956, I still find
persons, whom I consider as teachers. During 1959-60 and during 1961-63, I came into contact
with a Professor, from whom I have learned many things. All my training before 1959 lacked
a degree of self confidence. Though I was doing teaching and research reasonably well, I was
unsatisfied. I felt, may be, there was a better way of doing things and that I would come
acrcss people, from whom I could learn better ways in teaching and research. The Professor
I have mentioned gave a number of lectures in Maths, Fluid dynamics, Thermodynamics at
random; and what I learned from him is that I should look inward for guidance and must rely
on using essential logical principles in finding out the truth or otherwise, of my statements
and work. It has been an exhilarating experience to see light lIttle by little and to progress
rapidly to build up confidence, which gives strength to the mind.
I have also learnt good things in life while trying to make a purposeful living, humane
as well as satisfying; I learnt a great deal from some seniors in my profession. In fact I learnt so
much from one individual, without his knowing it, that when once I told him that I had been
an "EKALA VY A SISHY An to him, he said that he was very much at a loss to say anything.
He regained his composure in a moment and said that he would definitely not demand my
right hand thumb as Gurudakshina.
Life is long enough to learn a lot, and unlearn a lot more. The process of teaching
and learning is noble in its outlook since it benefits both the teacher and the taught. As years
go by~ I realise slowly the full meaning the Indian tradition, giving the place for Guru after
father and mother. The problems we call problems today in our teaching institutions will
pale into insigniflcance when one lOOks at the basic meaning of teachers and their activities.
To my teachers who have left significant imprints of their personalities in my mind, lowe my
mental existence and progress.

of

A Foot Note:
For those who are interested in reading others, about the interaction between the teachers
and the taught, I suggest Parkinson's book "A law unto themselves". Mr. Parkinson recalls what
he learnt from his Professor in Cambridge.
~

