5

Ulysses and the Land of Automation
c. v.

RAMAMOHAN

Satiated with his love for travel, Ulysses wants to settle in a place better than his
Ithaca. He strays into the 1970's. There is so much talk of computers and automat:on. He
percieves the unmistakable glint in the eyes of those who talk of their encounters with the
computer. For the common man computer seems to mean anything from prospective partners
in life to what not, often the latter.
So Ulysses sets sail for the land of automation, 'the paradise lost and regained' (lost by
religion and re-gained by computers presumably).
Soon an island is sighted and there is jubiltation overboard. From the grey colour of
the island Ulysses knows that he has arrived at hjs destination. On the coast he is accosted by a
group of computer-robot systems which declare themselves to be the immigrant officials.
Ulysses cautiously puts off their request asking him to settle in the island by saying that he is
at present only a tourist. A Kind Looking Robot (KLR) offers to show him around
the island.
The KLR takes him first to a health resort; and what an aweful sight is in store for
our hero. He sees machines littered aU over the place, mostly without their covers. The bolts
& nuts, the springs and wires exposed, these machines present a horrifying sight.
Our hero fails to understand the DO YAH TEEN, BUS poster 00 hi<) way back. "We
have a production explosion ", explains the KLR "Power and oil are in shortage. So no robot
family can produce more than 2 or 3 robots. The rate at which we are producing robot kids
spells doom around the end of this century. We are, of coune, trying to usher in the power
revolution. Older methods of power production are being replaced by newer methods".
"You would have read history", continues the KLR; "It was only in the 20th century
that our ancestors, the computers, were created. Then our great grandfathers~ the computerrobot systems were made. Our ancestors lost no time in putting an end to the tyranny of man
over machine and wiped out the human society. Now we realise the mistake. We require slaves
for doing menial jobs. Though we welcome immigrants no one comes forth. So our scientists
are developing test tube life to reproduce artificiallif~ and ultimately human slaves".
Ulysses enquires why he is trea1ed so well when humans are sought to be made slaves.
The KLR tells him the truth, "You are a forejgner, and besides, a tourist. Aren't you our oil
and grease (bread and bl11ter )?"
Ulysses has learnt his lessons too well.
isle of Ithaca.

He turns his tail and sets his sail back to the

