6

A Significant Aspect Missing
T.S.

RAMASWAMY

B. Se., B. Tech. (Civil) 1968 Batch

To begin with, may I request the reader to patiently ponder over my views objectively?
The more the reader is sincere in examining my views the greater will be the success achieved
by this humble endeavour pinned out by an immature alumnus of I.I.T., Madras.

It is quite wellknown that I.I.T., Madras is richly equipped with all the requirements
necessary for modern technical education (at least comparatively) and that the Institute is
producing a number of brilliant young technical and scientific personnel every year, which is
The social life in the campus
a matter of pride and prestige to the nation, of course.
(particulady in the Hostels) is more or less colourful. Everything is quite happy and gay. The
atmosphere in the Hostels is resplendent with a major proportion of Western Culture and a
minor proportion of sophisticated Indian lif~. I myself had the taste of thIS life for three
years.
My question: is there any significan t d~pect Inissing in the Hostel life? The answer
is a firm 'yes'. What is mis~lng is the spiritual aspect uniquely characteristic of Indian life.
But is not India a secular state? Of course, so what? Is there not unity in diversity? It
has been observed that generally our students have almost forgotten Of are seldom aware of
the fact that they have got souls (atmas) and that they are not just hke other living thing~ but
the marvel of the creation of God-par excellence. Prayers to the Almighty are much more
important than eating, drinking chatting, yapping, studying, playing, singing, attending, zagging"
or enjoying a 'flick' .
. You may tell me that there is a Siva Temple in the C::lmpus.
can go and how many do go?

Agreed.

But how many

I am too small a person to advise others in the propitiation of God. But as an
alumnus of I. I. T. and having had the taste of purely artificIal life, 1 venture to point out in aU
humility and assuming a sense of privilege and attachment, that life in I.LT. will not be complete
WIthout the spiritual aspect satisfied.
If IndIa has any recognition in the World it is purely due to its unique spiritual outlook
which is the fountain of all the aspects of Indian culture. How could Mahatma Gandhiji
achieve HereuJiun tasks most successfully? He himself admitted that he always prayed to the
Almighty. The word 'Rama' was his magic wand which was responsIble for the enshrinement
of Gandhiji ln our hearts as a champion of liberty, HIndu-MuslIm unity and, in short, as the
father of our Nation.
But for Swami Vivekananda, the countries assembled at Chicago would nat have
known what India is and what is in India. W~ should be perpetually indebted to that great
spiritual leader and pay obeisance to him.
My humble essay will be fruitful a.ld I will be greatly rewarded if my brothers start
a new life, praying to God everyday, thanking Him for all the comforts and His bountiful

