8

Hobbies I. I. T. Style
v. s.

BANDHUVULA

Sometime ba{k a Professor of IlTM lamented that the students of our institute are not
as aetive in extracurricular activities as those at other institutes. He cited hobbies for an
example. Knowing IITians and having been one, one is compelled to come to their rescue.
After all, how can the"cream" (some mischief mongers would call it the 'scum') of the nation be
accused of inaction?
Right from 1963 when I joined the institute, a day has not passed without my
discovering a new IITian hobby. Of course, these hobbies may be off.beat. The early years of
IITM were throbbing with activity.
Where else could one fmd people walking for miles to see a movie be it a Vadyar
at Thiruvanmiyur "Gajalakshmi" or a Vittalacharya's at Velacheri "Kannan"?
Crossing (in fact, wading through) the canal and walking in pitch darkness without knowing
whether one would end up in Thiruvanmiyur or in Mahabalipuram was really an experience
which no lITian of yester years would have missed. Scaling the hostel walls after returning
from the movie (necessitated by the watchman~s refusal to open the gate) provided the necessary
impetus to the formation of the mountaineering club in later years.

Emcheear~s

In those years Kaverians specialised in "bird watching". Velacheri was then at a
stone's throw from Kaveri and almost every Kaverian had his own binoculars.
The Saturday movies (16mm at that time) used to provide more opportunities for
target practice than the N.C.C. would. To quote from an old issue of the campas times,

." It isn't uncommon there to feel
Down your collar an orange peel"
. To my knowledge at least three people were collecting Fruitnik bottle in memory of the
parades attended by them. All one had to do WdS to put the bottles in the beret.
With the passing of time these hobbies were given up for one reason or the other.
Bird watching, for example, had to be given up because the villlge receded and a 7 feet wall
had come up In between. "The old order changeth ... " und so weiter.
There are, however, a few pastimes which survived the effects of time. Bath room
singing is as old as the institute -and it has survived the vdgaries of time and also the "shuddup
yar"s from the P.I.O.'s (an affectionate name for those staying next door to bath rooms). The
variety is extensive, rangmg from carnatic music to yea-yea-yeah types. P.J. ing is another of
the classical IITian pastimes.
As the institute went on adding colour to itself,fother and more mature hobbies like
evening walks, after-supper walks and Friday visits to temple followed.
The post-graduates and research scholars of the institute are devoted to the pastime of
visiting their and other departments at nights to promote interdepartmental research. More
often than not, these visits mean gossip and probably cat naps. J1:. Of course, there could be a few
killjoys who go and work.
An these go to prove that the creative genius of the "cream" of the nation is not dead
and that it is kicking in good health.
N.C.C.

