9

Ich bin ein Braunschweiger
R. RADHAKRISHNAN

Copying is a fine art and also much easier than writing something original. That being
so why not start right from the title? Hence, the above paraphrase fronl the famous saying
of the late John F. Kennedy during his visit to West Berlin, "Ich bin ein Berliner". When he
could claim this after his one.day visit, I think, I can do it with greater justification after nearly
a year's stay in Braunschweig.
After having been sufficiently fried at a temperature of +25°C for four months during
my language course in a small 'village, I landed in Braunschweig, a town in the State of Lower
Saxony. I expected something unusually big there-including the buildings of the University
since It is one of the major technical ufilversities extending aid to our Institute; but things
were quite different from what I expected. "You see, there is a hotel on the right side of the
road and my institute is in the ground floor of the same hotel" explained a senior colleague
from the LI. T. It really took me some time to realise that it is not the building or
equipment of the German Universities that is remarkable but their way of tackling problems.
This is perhaps the secret of theIr economic success.
"Post offices in Germany have many clearances but only one delivery per day, you see
we start pJanning right from here". with this introduction I was greeted by a German friend at
the University.
To my pleasant surprise I found that the academic standards of the I.I.T. Madras
compare very favourably with those of the technical university of Braunschweig. I had been told
by a few friends in India that the teaching methods were entlrely different in Germany, that
there were no examinations etc., but discovered all of them to be incorrect. It is a fact that
the students enjoy the University life much more than our students and attend their classes if
and when they feel like. But the strict discipline which the university ;;taff en force in their
home work and examination makes them understand that university education is not an easy
one.
Because of the very close relationship with industry, the various departments of the
univerSity obtain large financial grants. The directors of the various Institutes (who can be
compared With our Heads of D~partments) have the full discretionary powers to spend the
amount they get from Industry; and this certainly saves a lot of time in procuring the men
and the materials necessary for their projects.
Because most of the research work is industry-oriented one really acquires the ability
to find practical solutions.
Punctuality in coming to work, concentrated work during working hours and thorough
planning of even the enjoyment of week-end holidays are some of their enviable qualities worth
emulating.
I.!. T. Madras has earned a good name in many of the technical universities in
Germany. The most important thing we have to learn from them is how best to utilise at! the
expensive equipment we have received in the I.I.T.
After my return in April last year one of my friends asked me, "How about the
inspiration you got from the Germans during your stay there"? "You see", I replied, "the
difference in temperature between India and Germany has caused much of it to be lost
through perspiration".

2

