10

Mulkraj Anand'$
Morning Face: A Synoptic Review
DR.

A..V.

KRISHNA RAO

Mulkraj Anand IS, perhaps, the first and foremost Indo-Anglian novelist to inject
naturalism into fiction writing. In his fiction one finds a direct frontal assault on a reality which
lies rooted in the present and in the quick pulp of the near and the immediate. In bis novels,
generally speaking, revolutionary ideas and ideals, impulsive radicalism and deterministic
interpretation of social reality through the technique of naturalism have become central. Even
in this autobiographical novel, life flows with impetuous rush, dictating and controlling the
aesthetic form itself. Social, cultural and political awareness in its wider amplitudes of fact,
as well as in it'! deeper locutions of sensIbility, becomes the focus of his plot in this novel. The
form, consequently, does not brook leisurely sophistication but compels the protagonist's experience strike out patterns of whatever vision that lies underneath. Thus we can regard Anand
as a radtcal humanist whose genesis is described in this fascinating but somewhat heavy book.
The boy-hero, -Krishan Chander could have been the author himself: such is the authenticity
of experience that forms the thematic ballast of this novel, divided into three parts with the
locales at Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jhelum. The time is roughly the period of the First \Vorld
War.
Krishan, the narrator-hero, Gaaesh, his elder brother, and Shiv, his younger brother
arrive in Amritsat with their parents. A number of in-laws belonging to the Coppersmith
community with f~ith in the Aga Khan receive them with a show of affection and regard. Just
at the time of the outbreak of hostil ities between England and Germany leading to the First
World War, Arya Samaj was very strong in the Punjab. Lajpatrai and Rama Thirtha were the
heroes of this Hindu revivalist orgranisation founded by the Hindu saintly reformer Dayanand
Saraswati. Some of the uncles of Krishan belong to this new movement while his mother still
believes in the mystical faith of the Aga Khan, the supreme leader of the Islamias ; his father,
Babu Ram Chand, is a loyalist in politics but a lenient father.
Krishan is an "enfant terrible" an extremely clever and over-sensitive little boy of a
local Primary School, founded by a Hindu philanthropist. A myriad impressions concerning
his parents, uncles, aunts and their children as well as the social environment including the
Hindu-Muslim tension, sink into his consciousness. Very soon, that is, before the year 1S out,
he becomes a silent "rebel"; rebel against the British imperialism, the narrow-mindedness of the
Arya Samagists in keeping down the weaker sections of the Hindu society such a<; the untouch ..
abIes and sweepers, and even against his own parents who appear to hIm to be little better than
selfish loyal servants of the British and the dubious leadership of the Aga Khan. He finds,
quite dangerous1y, the secret but unconventional and therefore "immoral" pleasures of some of
his uncles and aunts very fascinating and even ideal for the present. At the end of the year,
his elder brother and he who happen to be in the same class in the primary school are declared
to have been promoted to the sixth class. His father decides that Krishan and Ganesh should
go to their eldest brother in Ludhiana while their mother and Shiv would go to Chitral. Both
brothers seem lost and forlorn at the prospect of separation from their mother but put on brave
faces. Krishan is both excited with pleasure and anticipation at the new opportunity of

