11

seeing another world of people at Ludhiana. But still he feels maudlin about his attachment
to his beautIful and warm-hearted Aunt Devaki who has always ~howered affection on him.
What at first appears to be a welcome change to Krishan Chander proves to be in the
course of next twelve months a virtual house imprisonment because of the treatment m~ted out
to him by his loveless and barren sister-in-law, Draupadi. Krishan, thanks to the generosity of
his elde~t brother Harish, discovers, however, a new world of happiness and affection in the
house of Mumtaz, the good-natured prostitute-keep of Harish. Krishan's experiences at school
are much more horrible than they were at Amritsar. Master Budh Singh's sadistic and homosexual perversions only repel Krishan. The Headmaster and other teachers with patriotic
leaolOgs are helpless against the influential but almost criminal Master Budh Singh. Krishan
Chander whose health is rather delicate falls seriously ill which necessitates his return to hIS
parents for treatment at the army hospital.
~
Krishan agrees, after his recovery from the typhoid fever which almost kil!ed him to
return to Ludhiana in order to appear for the annual examination. His parents assure him that
he would be brought back to lhelum for further education in the G.:wernment High School.
At lhelum cantonment, Krisl1an Chander matures into a youth of incandescent
idealism owing to his extra-curricular expenences and interests coupled with his own innate
precocity. Apart from masters hke Hari Chand, Dr. Chuni Lal and Shakuntala imbue the
young and impressionable protagonist with a deep sense of self-respect, self-confidence and
patriotism. He learns a thing or two even from Bakha, the sweeper boy, and Sepoy Jai Singh.
Aunt Devaki, Mumtaz Shakuntala and finally Helen inspire the man in his deep sub-conscious
so that his aspiration to become a poet contrary to the wish of his parents who remain rooted ,
in his mind as being selfish, ignorant, superstitious and hypocritical, may turn out to be a
reality. As a Witness of history in Amritsar and Lahore and Ludhiana, Krishan Chander
acquires certain values such as a consideration for the poor and the down-trodden and a
positive love of freedom.
Published by Kutub Popular, the book which is the lengthiest novel so far written by
Anand, is priced rather high. But none, even with a cursory interest in Indian Writing in
English, can afford to miss this autobiographical "tour de force" of a doyen among the
contemporary Indo·English novelists. The title is a famous phrase from the Bard's Seven
Ages of Man:

"All the World's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players;
They have their exits and their entrances;
And One man in his time plays many parts,
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms;
Then the whining school-boy, with his satche1
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
Unwillingly to school. ........ "
There ends the fictional concern
subsequent story.

of Anand in

this novel.

Let us wait for the untold

