12

The Alumni Association
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras-36.
Annual Report for the year 1969-'70.
It is a great pleasure to place before you the annual r~port of the Alumni Association
for the period 1969-'70. This year the ranks of our association swelled up by 353 to reach
a new membership figure of 1800.
This year there had been a number of changes in the executive committee of our
as ociation. Prof. Dr. E. G. Ramachandran was our acting President during the period when
Prof. Dr. P. Venkat Rao wac; away on a foreign assignm~nt. Mr. C. S. Ramaiah took over
as Secretary from Mr. M. R. Sridhar on 4.12.1969. Mr. B. V. Subrahmanyanl took over as the
Secretary from Mr. Ramaiah on 20.5.70.
One cannot miss a strong note of disappointment in all the annual reports of our
association ever since its inception.
This report cannot depart from this unfortunate
tradition.
As far as the membership of the outgoing post-graduate students is concerned the
response is very poor. In a number of cases, the heads of the concerned departments faIled
to cisculate the appeal made by the alumni president. Also the membership of our association
appears to be strongly influenced by the success of the placement section and unless the job
position improves considerably, the response of the students to the appeals are bound to be
disappoin ting.
This yeir only one news letter could be brought out. The most important reason was
the lack of news and contributions from our lnembers. A look at our news letters and
"PradeepH will show that the contributions to them from our A1umni who are not presootly
in I.I.T., Madras are almost Hit. It must be remembered by the members of our association
that our news letters are meant to give the news of our Alumni and not the institute news as they
currently do. For the latter there are enough media.
I appeal to all our members not to give a chance for dropping the publication of the
news letters and the '·Pradeep".
The Alumni association likes to be in touch with a1l its members and know their
experiences ~nd these could be valuable for the other members of our association. The
members are requested to communicate with the association and maintain an everlasting
relationship with the Institute and its other alumni.
I express my sincere thanks to the President, office-be'lrers, the staff members of the
Institute and to the alumni for their co-operation and help. Special thanks are due to
Messrs. K. Satyanarayana and P. R. Sethuraman for their help. I also wish to record my
gratitude to the members of the Editorial board for their services.
Remembering our motto "Sahaviryam Karavahu" "Let us strhe together" for the glory
of our Alma Matter.

Dated:

2~-8-'70

B. V. SUBRAHMANYAM
Secretary.

