FAREWELL TO DR. SIR A. LAKSHMANASWAMI MUDALIAR
(First Chairman, Board of Governors, LI.T., Madras-36.)
SHRI

H. V. R. IENGAR,

(Chairman, Board of Governors, J.I.T., Madras.)
It is only a few days ago that I had the honour and privilege of presiding over a function
organized by the Madras Institute of Technology, their Council and their Alumni -Association,
to express their appreciation of the great services rendered by Dr. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar
to that Institute. I note that some of the people who were present on that occa~ion are here.
I imagine they would be wondering to what extent I would be repeating myself. In the case of
Dr. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar there is no such difficulty because his achievements are so varied,
his spectrum of interest is so wide that it is not really necessary to repeat oneself even over a
dozen meetings.

I have been thinking since this morning about what particular facet of hIS activities
I should talk on this evening and it occurred to me that the most important contribution
that he has made to the public life of this country has probably been in the field of the maintenance, to an exceptionally high degree, of standards in the University of Madras. This is not
so easy as it sounds, because we have Universities and Universities, both here and overseas and
we have been passing through a period of exceptional trouble all over the place. ViceChancellors have been gheroed. I think that is a new contribution by India to the lexicon of
the English language. Vice-Chancellors have been forced overnight to submit their resignations,
students have been known to indulge in arson of buses-there is some peculiar allergy
between students all over the world and bus drivers and bus conductors; students have been
known to halt trains by sitting on the track, they have been known to burn tramcars and signal
boxes and, i'1 the midst of all these, there is a remarkably, a singularly free area of peace and
quiet and discipline and good sense in the University of Madras and J wondered why. There
have been a few ripples now and then, but, broadly speaking, this description is correct.
I have been thinking of the reasons why this has happened. Now, quite clearly, throughout the
world, there has been a great deal of disturbances in the minds of students. I remember and
all of you probably know there has been a great deal of trouble in the Campuses in the United
State:::; even in that very staid country, the United Kingdom, which many of us know as students
and also as visitors, that a Vice-Chancellor was gheroed last year. I remember, I was in
london last year on the day that Mahatma Gandhi was assasinated, the 30th of January.
There was a wonderfully, moving ceremony in St. Paul Cathedral organised by a British Indian
Society in London. The Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Mountbatten spoke and
St. Paul's Cathedral was absolutely full. Various hymns in which Gandhiji was i(j~\}rested
were sung and when we came out, had the feeling that we were temporarily living in another
world, of peace, quiet and spiritual satisfaction. When I came out, I saw a large number of
polic~ constables lining the street from St. Paul's Cathedral down to Aldrich and I found
the reason for this was that there was a procession of students of the London School of
Economics. There were about 3 or 4 hundred of them, both boys and girls. I have never,

