14
in my life~ come across a most scruffy or dirty crowd, and many of them came from quite good
families. Something has happened to the younger generation all over the world. That is my
only purpose in pointing this out. The other day only a fortnight ago, my wife and I went
on a pilgrimage to the Shrine Amarnath in the Himalayan region in Kashmir. We found
half a dozen European or American youngsteres dredching all the WhY up to the mountain to
the Shrine. What makes a boy born and blOUght up in California, London, Berlin or
Frankfurt, come all the way to India, grow beard and walk upto 14,000 feet to visit a Hindu
Shrine. I really do not know. But strange things are happening in the students' minds all
over the world and ~o the fact that students' minds are distrubed in India is not really a
matter of great surprise. We have of course our own special swedesbi reasons for aggravating
this distemper amongst the students. We have the problem of unemployment, for instance.
It is really a pretty serious matter. I was wondering to myself this morning as to why,
in spite of the general malaise throughout the world, in particular the aggravation of
disturbanc~s in students minds in our country because of the problem of unemployment, in a
place like this, like the University of Madras because Dr. Lakshmanaswamy Mudaliar's
role here in the Campus of liT is, I think, organically quite like hi~ Vice-Chancellorship
of the University of Madras-~here has been a comparative peace, quiet and a
sense of decorum and a sense of discipline. I can only put it down to the fact that,
as Chairman of the Board of Governors of this Institute and as the Vice-Chancellor
of the University of Madras, he has been able, by sheer force of character and
personality, to disburse amongst the minds of the student a sense of respect for himself and
the institutions of which he is the Chairman. This is a matter of particular importance today,
i.e. the personality of a person at the top and the sense of respect which he creates amongst all
those whom he comes in contact with. This is of particular important becuase of the general
are~ of indiscipline that we notice all round us, particularly in the political field. Politics
in all countries lS a pretty strange business. It leads to aU kinds of distortions in personal
relationships, but one had hoped that political controversies would be carried out, becuase they
~re inevitable in any human socIety, with some degree of decorum, but the voices in our
country have b~en rather shrill and the manner in which debates have been carried out is such
that if I were a young student I would not feel a tremendous amount of respect for the
polit cal leaders of this country. -Indeed I have the feeling that some of the discontent amongst
the student community arises out of the very fact that this respect for the political leaders of
the country is rapidly dimishing. It is in the midst of these distrotions of all the sense of
indiscipline and insecurity that \ve have around us that it is particularly noticeable that
Dr. Lakshmanswami Mudaliar ha~ been able to disburse, as it were, an atmosphere of quiet
a love for sholarshlp, a sense of discipline and a sense of decorum and good behaviour and
all the virtues which are usuaUy regarded as conservative, but which, in reality, are ageless and
should be ~geless.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I have 110t had as much opportunity as some of the other
Speakl,lS have had of coming into contract with Dr. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar.
Dr. Nayudamrna told you that he has been working with him for the last 17 or 18 years. My
contact with Dr. Mudaliar has only been in the last five or six years; but during this period I have
been tremendously struck by his method, by h s except onal sense of discipline, by his meticulousness, by his anxiety to take up whatever job he does as well as it can be done. In fact, I have
been often astonished at the fact that even on relatively small matters affecting either this

