15
institute or the Madras Institute cf Technology, he devotes his whole heart and mind into the
particular problem.
These are virtues which are exceptionally rare and there not
many people in our country or in other countries in the world who have a combination of this
great capacity for vision, of which Dr. Nayudamma spoke, combined with capacity for infinite
care as to detail and great meticulousness in the performance of one's daily tasks.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I would not like to stand any longer between you and Dr.
Mudaliar. I can only say, as the final speaker before he replies. that I am voicing, 1 am absolutely
certain, everyone of you present here, the Professors, Members of the Faculty, students, our
Distingu1shed visitors and everybody when I say that we wish both you and your wife long 1ife,
health and happiness. When you sit back and reach the evening of your years t and reflect on the
somewhat turbulent world that you see passing by, I am sure it will give you some satisfaction to
know that, over your professional life and over your academic life, you have brought a sense of
feeling of discipline and good sense to the whole generation of Students and Staff. I do
think, Ladies and Gentlemen, that this has been one of the greatest facets of the contribution
that he has made.

DR. A. L.

MUD ALlAR'S REPLY

I do not know how I can express my feehngs on this occasion, overwhelmed as I am by
the very kind words that have been spoken by all the speakers this evening. The lIT has been
a dream for me for many years. Perhaps, most of you may not be aware of the genesis of this
Institute. It was in the year 1946, when the Education Member of the Government of India
in the pre-independance da)s Sir 10ginder SlOgh, called for a meeting of members of various
States, businessmen and industrialists, who were held in high esteem in those day, as well as
labour leaders. In a gathering of about six.ty-five people, there were two representatives of the
Inter-University Board, my late lamented friend Prof. Siddhanta and myself. The whole
morning was taken up with discussions, and as we were about to adjourn for lunch, one of
us got up and told the President. 'Now that we have had all these discussions, may we
set up a small sub-committee to consider what should be presented to committee at its next
meeting?' The suggestion was accepted and a small committee with nine persons was appointed
with Mr. Sarkar, who was then a Minister in the West Bengal, as the Chairman of the
committee, It was the recommendation of this committee that led to the various bodies which
now hav~ a say in technical and technological education in this country.
Being geared to the Univesity mode of thinking, we started with an All India Council
of Techmca1 Education which represents the Senate. We had what is known as a co-ordinating
committee which represents the syndicate. We had also various boards of studies suggested
and we then drew up plans for four Institutes of Technology in the first instance, each of them
being in one corner of India: north, east, west and south. T~le suggestion was adopted at the
next meetIng and Dr. Sarkar was made Chairman of the co-ordinating committee and from
that day we went to work on the lIT's.

