16

Soon, the Calcutta Institute at Kharagpur was established-Prof. Siddhanta was the
Chairman and he had already a blue-print; the next Institute to be estab1ished was in Bombay.
When it came to the Institute in the South, each of the four Southern States-thought that
the Institute should be located in their capital; Trivandrum, Bangalore, Hyderabad and
Madras. The question was very difficult for the Mmistry of Education to decide and
therefore they entrusted this to a con1mittee of which I happened to be the Chairman. The
committee, called the Southern Regional Committee had to pull chestnuts out of fire and
give the Ministry a solution. We were asked to invite the Ministers of the different States
to meet us and gh-e us their view!'. This historic meeting was held in the UniversJty and
the four Ministers were there. After listening to all of them I ventured-I was much more
bold then than I am now-to say that the Ministers, having expressed their views, may
kindly retire because they had very heavy duties to perform elsewhere and that the Southern
Regional Committee would discuss the question. Within hal f-.ln-hou r, there was unanimous
opinion that the Institute will be located in Madras. That was the first triumph that we had
for locating this Institute in Madras.
But, the difficulties did not end, there; the requirements were about 650 acres of land,
supply of wat6r and electric energy. We had therefore to look for a site. We ventured
to suggest, with longing lingering of looks, that the Government Estate in Guindy was perhaps
the most suitable site because they had 1100 acres. We had a meeting with his Excellency the
Governor of Madras, Mr. J. John of Kerala, the Education Minister, myself and the Chief
Engineer to the Government, and we got this site of 650 acres.
The question afterwards was how to get this estate into a reasonable frame to serve the
academic purpose. Perhaps~ you are all aware of the fact that this was part of the deer park
and occasIOnally snakes used to go round and scorpions and other sp~cies of the animal kingdom
and it was a task to know exactly what to do.
Fortunately, we had a blue-print prepared by th~ Ministry of Education and it was
this that the foundation-stone was laid by the Llte Mr. Humlyun Kabir who took a keen
i.nterest in this Institute.
But the bUIldings were not there and the Institute had to start work; It could not
wait for all the e buildings. So we appro.lched the neighbounng institutions to get some little
The CLRI gave us accommodation for our offices for which
space to sta-rt working.
Dr. Nayudamma has to be thanked. The A.C. College, of-course, came in and said that they will
place their laboratories at the disposal of the IlT in Its early years. Even the Guindy
Engineering College was willing to help us. All that happened because the person charged
wlth the duties of the Chairman of this Institute had, ~omehow or other, a finger on every
institution and so they could not resist his appeals.
I am glad to say that under the able leadership of Prof. B. Sengupto who was the
first DIrector and Mr. R. Natarajan who was the Registrar and, WIth the assistance of the
superintending engineer, Mr. Y. S. Ramaswamy, buildmg after building came up in this vast
complex and the glory of it all was that all the great trees were not touched and the buildings
&rew up in a sort of atmosphere that we can call the Tagor~ atmosphere.

