17
I could go on telling this story more and more, but the most important event that
took place was the vis,t of our late Prime Minister lawaharlal Nehru to Germany and it was
that that gave us a foot-hold for a strong, an able and an academically forward-looking Institute
here. The generous help given by the German government of the day has been continued for
the last so many years, both in equipment as well as in the more important aspects of the
personnel that were to come here and give us their valuable help in guiding the work in this
institute. And so it came about that the lIT, Madras gaiued a premier position amongst the
Institutes of Technology-there are five of them-and I can say that without any fear of contradiction that this Institute holds a high place not only in this country, but in the technological
world of today. We are deeply grateful to the German government for having given us this
excellent assistance at a time when we were just start!ng lIfe, as it were, and resuscating us from
time to time.
The schools were opened and I see before me Rev. l. D. Murphy, my oldest adviser
and friend who took a keen interest in starting these schools, the Primary school and the
Central school and all that goes with it.
We have many other friends who have helped us in this cause, many who have
willingly given us their services. It would, therefore, be not right to say that either the Chairman
or the Board of Governors was responsible for many of the developments that have taken place
here. I am particularly happy that the student population here have been meticulously careful
in conducting themselves in a manner that I have always been able to pose bef9re my students
, in the University. There has been a great deal of effort on their part to prvve that they are
worthy undergraduates of this famous Institute of Technology.
I am really overhelmed by the kind expressions made about me. All that I can say is
that opportunity comes once in a life time. If you take hold of that opportunity, success will
be yours. ] hope and tfust that, on all occasions, the lIT will take care of these opportunities
and come to be par excellence, the best not only in this country, but in the whole world I
wish ~ our Institute all sucess. I wish your Chairman, Board of Governors, every success.
It has been a great delight to me when I relinquished office to know that my worthy
successor is none other than Mr. H. V.R. lengar. I must thank him for having taken this onerous
duty and I am sure he will discharge his responsibility with his usual ability which he has gained
over a long period of service. The fact that he is connected with one of the most important
industries makes me feel sur~ that (be link between the lIT and the Industrial world wlll be not
only close but effective and always give the best pos:iible results.
I thank him for having
accepted this Chairmaship.
I thank you one and all for the great honour that you have
I look upon this d~y as a red-letter day in my life.

dOll~

me and my wi e and

