J9

Eleventh Annual Day held on 25th March, 1970
Address by DR. A. RAMACHANDRAN, the Director,
Mr. Kothari, Mrs. Kothari, Ladies and Gentlemen

i

It gives me great pleasure to e~tend to you all a most cordial welcome to this Eleventh
Annual Day of this Institute. We have been most fJrtunate in having as our Chief Guest, today,
Mr. D.C. Kothari one of th~ enlightened leaders in Industry. This is the first public function
he is participating after assuming the Presidentship of the Federation of Indian Chambers of
<!!I)mmerce and Industry. May I, Sir, on behalf of all present here, extend to you our warmest
congratulatIOns. More than ever before, there is a need for a close coupling between educational
institutions like ours and Industry. We, in the Institute, look to you, Sir, for the premotion of
this worthwhile goal.
'
I am a1so very grateful to Mrs. Kothari for graciously consenting to give away the
prizes.
Dr. James R. Killian, Former President of the Massachuserl,~ Institute of Technology,
speaking on 'the obligations and ideals of an Institute of Technology' declared an Institute of
Technology must educate men in such a way that they could ride the galloping horses of change
and be thrown off by being too narrowly specialised. It has to inculcate in its graduates, the
skills, the will to innovate and the entrepreneurial spirit to modernize the old industry .and to
emerge as leaders in advancing the economy and welfare of the Nation. In order to achieve an
invigorating relationship between technological education and industry he advocated a five point
programme : Development of practice-schools in manufacturing plants under the direction of the
faculty of the Institution;
Use of cooperative programmes;
Use of engineering field stations;
Systematic encouragement of indu<:.trial liaison programmes and of' provocative
interaction between industrial and academic personnel.
The invidious distinction between pure and applied science was akin to the effect
distinction between thought and practice, between mind and hand-the silly attitude that
one still occasionally encumbered that spurned practical work as unfit for intellectuals
Science, Engineering and Social Sciences should be working partners in the grand plan with
its attendant responsibility of mUltiplying inter-connected resea rch.
Dr. Killian also wanted an Institute of Technology to be a 'a home and indeed a
nursery' of professional leaders who possessed a keen sense of the relationship of their
work to the society in which they lived and worked. It was necessary for technologists
to accept the leadership role, as, in his view, the Engineers' professional responsibilities
have never been so centn.l to society as they are today. An engineer, he added, had the
capacity and motivation to use and shape technology as a powerful instrument for enhancing
the quality of society as well as their material advance and for helping to solve social problems
of the time. No other kind of professional man today occupied a position of such socially
strategic responsibility and opportunity for important public service.

