20
We, at this Institute, are fully aware of the high expectations of the discerning public.
Our activities during the year under review will show that leadership and excellence is a way of
life in this Campus.
The Sixth Convocation of this Institute was held on 2nd August 1969 with
Dr. S. Bhagavantam as the Chief Guest. 321 students received the B. Tech. degree, 30 M.Sc.,
76 M. Tech., 24 the Post graduate Dipl~ma of this Institute and 19 D.)ctorate Degrees.
The
Institute has, at pre~ent, in its rollsa total of ] 728 full time students-l,266 for the B. Tech.
De1Zree and 426 for Post graduate courses and research. Besides, 187 staff members are pursuing
Post graduate Programmes and Research on a part time basis. This represents an increase
of 25 percent over last year's post graduate and Research enrollment.
Academic Activities
During this year, new courses leading to the award of Master's Degree in Industrial
Metallurgy with electives in Metal Joining, Metal Forming and Metal Casting; Industrial
Engineering and Industrial Management, were started. New electives were introduced, such as
High Polymer Engineering, Radar Technology, and Traction and Electric Drives.
The.semester pattern of instruction for the five year B. Tech Degree was introduced
after great delib~rations by various faculty committees and tbe Senate. It is hoped that this
system will enable the In~titute to equip its graduates with the technology of tomorrow and
not of pa st year.
Continuing Education
The programme of continuing education for Engineers in Industry and Teachers of
Engineering Institutions was more widespread during the year under review-both in breadth
and in depth.
I shall not list all the short courses offered, suffice it to say that several
departments of the Institute played a very important role in this activity.
Summer schools in Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Engineering
and an advanced summer school on 'Development and D~sign of Chemical Process Equipment'
for the benefit of teachers from Engineering Colleg!s were held during May-June 1969.
The Annual Conference of the A'!ronautical Society of India wa5 held at this
- Institute in April 1969.
Delegate~ from all over India actively participated in presenting
technical papers and in the discussions that followed.
A ,symposium on 'Problems of Prestressing' was held in February 1970 in co_
operation with the Indian National Group of the International Association for Bridge and
Structural Engineering and the High ways Department of the State Government.
A National Symp0sium on 'Combustion'
Institute, was held during December 1969.

in

collaboration with the Combustion

Indro-German Collaboration
During the year under review, 17 Faculty Members of the Institute were deputed to
West Germany-13 for long term training and 4 for study visits.
Several German faculty
members left the Institute on successful completion of theIr assignments here. Seven German
faculty members joined the Institute during recent months. May, I, on behalf of the Institute

