21
express my warm appreciation of the services rendered by those who have left and, at the
same time, extend a warm welcome to those who have recently joined us.
The Visiting Professors
have distinguished Professors in
StuttgClrt; Dr. Buschmann from
H.V. Weingrabher and Prof.
Hannover.

Scheme under the Indo·German Agreement enabled us to
our midst like Prof. Petrikat from Technical University.
Bonn; Prof. H.P. Stuwe, Prof. H.H. Emschermann, Prof.
Pekrun from Braunschweig; and Prof. Mehrenheltz from

Campus
The new building for the Department of Aeronautical Engineering was declared open
by Mr. H. V. R. lengar, Chairman, Board of Governors of this Institute, in Apri! 1969. The
Structures Laboratory and the extension to the Hydraulics Laboratory were completed and
occupied during the year. A number of sub·stations were built to augment the power supply
to the variou5 Laboratories.
The Machine Elements and Materials Handling Laboratory,
Sarayu Hostel Extension and the residential quarters fifth phase, are nearing completion.
Construction work is in full swing for the new Applied Chemistry Block. The staff of the
Engineering Unit deserve our warm appreciation for their strenuous efforts in keeping the con ..
struction programme according to schedule.

Laboratories :
Gift equipment worth Rs. 75 lakhs was received from Germany during the year
bringing the grand total to Rs. 3.3 crores, since the inception of the Institute. . Several
sophisticated instruments and equipment were commissioned in the various laboratories of the
Institute. Some of the notable ones are,(1)

The Large Wind Tunnel of the Fluid Mechanics Laboratory in the Department of
Applied Mechanics.

(2)

The High Polymer Enginnering and Process Control Laboratories in th~ Department
of Chemical Engineering.

(3) Towing Tank attached to the Hydrauiic Engineering Laboratory

(4)

The Mass Spectrometer with the attached analytical gas Chromotograph in the
Special Instruments Laboratory.

(5)

The High Voltage Laboratory and the A.C. Network Analyser in the Department
of Electrical Engineering.

(6) The Metal Joining Laboratory

(7)

Aircraft Structures Laboratory; and

(8)

Test Cubicles in

I.e. Engines Laboratory.

The Government of India has given the clearance for setting up a Computer Centre at
this Institute. I am pleased to report that Government of the Federal Republic of Germany
and the Government of India have agreed to the provision of a fairly large Computer for this
Institute, which will serve not only the research workers of this Institute, but also assist other
educational and research institutions in this area. It is my hope that the Computer Centre will
be in operation during the latter half ot 197 I.
I wish to express, on behalf of the Institute, my sincere thanks for the help rendered
by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.

