22
Sponsored Schemes and Endowments:
There are several research schemes in progress financed by different agencies like the
Department of Atomic Energy, PL-480 and the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research.
Several endowments and awards were received during the year-Messrs. Indian Oxygen
Ltd., Continental Devices India Ltd., Rotary Club of Madras and a gold medal in memory of
late R.V. Kolluri, a student of the Institute.
Induitrial Liaison
The Institute attaches great importance to liaison with indu"try. Sever3-1 departments
of the Institute have done significant work in this direction. The Institute earned a sum of
approximately Rs. 75,000/- during the year under review (a 300%) increase over last year) for
the work done in the areas of testing, investigations, development work and consultancy for
industry.
Sponsored research and development work for industry wiil be further promoted
in the coming year.
Gymkhana
The Institute Gymkhana had a year of tremendous activity. The Institute rocketed
from its traditionally last place to the second place in the inter-liT Sports Meet held at Kharagpur
last December.
A grand Carnival in aid of the Students' Centre was held in February 1970.
The
Cultural and Literary Week attracted student-participation from institutlons far and near. 1
wish to take this opportunity of complimenting the general Secretary and the Secretaries for
various activities under the colourful leadership of the President, Dr. Klein, for the high
standards they have set up. May I also avail this opportunity to bid farewell to Dr. KleIn
and thank him for his distinguished leadership of the Gymkhana during the la';t three years.
On behalf of all present here, May I wish ·him success in his new assignment in
Stu ttgart ? .
Ladiec; and Gentlemen, I am deeply greateful to the whole-hearted support and co·
operation extended to me by the staff (academic, technical, and administrativ~) and students
of this Institute. It is my hope that the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, will fulfil the
Inany excellent ideals of an Institute of Technology, so eloquently stated by Dr. James R.
Killian, which I referred to at the beginning of my address, and that it will stand forth as
one of, the constellation of outstanding Institutions and Universities around the
world.
Some of my young friends will be leavmg the portals of this Institution. I am sure that
they will look back in the years to come with prtde qnd happiness at the time spent here.
Opportunity knocks once at your door and if at that time you are not prepared, such an
opportunity may never come back. 'Be prepared' is a good motto not only for scouts, but for
every individual who wishes to play his or her role well in society.
May I wish you all suC'cess and may your career be bright and prosperous for your
own benefit and for the greater glory of your Institute and the Motherland?
Thank you.

--;(0):--

