SPECIAL. lSSl]E

2S P.

liT Madras, January 1970

Vol. VIII, No.3

WE DID IT ...
WE DID IT.
WE DID IT.

..

AND BY THE
SKIN OF OUR

TEETH!
THE fact is that for the first time in history,
the MDS contingent had something to
telegraph, hOInc at the end of the Inter IIT
1vIeet; 'Tennis badminton wan overall positioll
second.' That tersely worded statement
said a lot less than we would have liked to, but
proved eminently suitable as a starter. NoW'
for the (esb
T1!.e eighteenth. was the day of heroics for
*e ·Madras contingent. Our hockey team
shocked Delhi, the holders, and e'Veryone else.
.Forever on the lookout for points that would
lift us out of the ignominous rut to which we
had become accustomed in the past years, we
rejoiced over the six sure points this would
fetch us: and thought longingly of the tell
that lay within our· reach,. In the tennis
quarter-final encounter, too, we 'Put paid to
D~lhi· and were well on the way to the
.;hampianship. True, we received Ii setback
in table tennis, but before we had time to
start regretting things the basketball match
against Kharagpur was wen under way. The
almost unbearable excitement of the £a5t'moving game finally exploded in a cheering,
raving melee. Another six. sure points in th~
bag, and, hopefully, it mtght be ten. We
began. to breathe ea~ier. No longer were we
scared of the fifth position.
.
The nineteenth saw our hopes fluctuattng
wildly. After having swamped KNP in the
tennis semi-final, we stood aghast at the debacle
all the football field. So sure of ourselves, we
had gone and. goofed miserably in one of OUl'
sure bets .. Almost simultaneously, our volleyhall team received a crushing defeat at the
'hands of KGP . . Pretty disheartened by n.ow,
we trooped to . the Students' Centre to watch
our badminton players boost Out waning fortUlles.' . But in the very first match of the
series, Delhi gave us a knock when Sudhir
Kumar took the match from Edwin Srinivasan
after a display of ~hampionship badminton.
Sheopuri was the hero of the day when he
won his singles match, and teamed up with
Edwin to pull the doubles match out of the

7th

fire for us; this wus the deciding match. ,\>Ve
won 3-2 against DLI, and counted another six.
sure points: almost certainly bound to increase
to ton the next day.
On the twentieth, we played four finals alld
one losing semi-finalists match. Of the foul'
we won two (tennis and badminton), lost two
(hockey and basketball.), and won the losing
semi-finalists match (volleyball). At this stage
;we could count thirty-four points. Ow' overall position depended to a large extellt on what
happened on the athletics field the nCA"t day.
Of the 30.5 points we e~rned in athletics,

£ultural

BIG )
( DEAL

THE original idea for the cultural meet was to
have ten participants from every nT, and
allow an hour for each. By the time we went
to 'KGP, it had been hahed: both as regards
time and as regards the number of participants.
In the first meeting of the organising committee, it was discovered that most of thc UTs
hadn't brought separate ctlltural teams. ''Vc
had taken 'along three members to provide the
cultural programme and offered to put up a
show for half an hour. 130mbay offered to
provide entertainment for ten minutes.
Kanpur and Delhi weren't sure ~\S to whether
they could do anything at all.
The entertainment programme which wns
scheduled to start at 8 p.m., started at 9 p.m.
This was due both to the participants not turning up ill time and the mikes conking out.
For one reason or another, our cultural team
had given up the idea of even trying to enter~
taul. They were haunting the badminton
match between. MDS and DLI, which, as
anyone will be prepared to admit, was a sight
more interesting. However, when StlmmOllS
came from high offices with threats o~ dire

Narelldra Kwnar brought us :u. . He came
first in four: C\'ellts (javelin. throw, 400 metres
hltrdles) ltO metres hu.rdles, tripl~ jump)
settin.g up new records in two of them (400 &
110 metres hurdles), and fomi:h in {)ne (high
jltmp). The other points were earued by
Chillar (5), Bhaskaran (z.5). Mani Thomas (1),
and M. S. Choudhury (r). .
Our overall position in athletics was fourth.
BMB, who had 31 points, came third. How
the final position resolved itself makes interesting reading.
(C01Itd. 01£ p. 3 col. 2)

Programm¢
consequencl(s to follow on in the lyake of any
such illsubordination, our would-be entertainers reluctanUy left the Students' Centre and
trooped dolefully down to the Netaji 'Suohas
Chandra Bose Auditorium. There they made
a half-hearted attempt at keeping the handfut
of spectators entertained. The audience was
composed mainly of KGP staff: hardly an;y
students bothered to grace the occasion with
their presence. They had far more interesting
thin.gs to do. This should be an indication to
future hosts of the Meet to arrange the
schedu.les in such a way that the culturttl programme does not clash with an event wh.ich
keeps the audience away from it.
The entertainment, as .might have beel\
expected, was sub-standard. The J{GP
orchestra was good. For Madras, Kash did
well, but was handicapped by Mu,rali's absence.
8anya1 tried the 3lldience's patience. The
programmes by the other nT's are not worth
mentioning. The rest had better be consigned
to the oblivion of official records.l We can
collsole ourselves with the thQught that off.
the stage, our cultural team Was eminently
entertaining.

INTER liT MEET

