CAMPASTIMES

LAhJK'AR

[J anuary 1970

lIT KHARAOPUR
Volume 10, No. 4

19th December, 1969

DAY OF COLOUR, THRILLS AND UPSETS
On the bright and chilly morning of December 18, while the spectators shivered in the fltands, and the flags
hung pale and limp around th.e Jnan Ghosh Stadium, four and a half contingents (KGP could rbund up only a few
volunteers) assembled for the march past. The expectant crowd sat through some speeches, wondering why the
loudspeakers were whispering. The chief guest, General Kumar, unfurled the Inter lIT flag as 7 pigeons were
released, and 7 large. balloons were put into orbit by our S. Nites, dad in their Thursday worst. The 7th Inter
lIT was on its way. The contingents marched past, tooted along by the E.F.R. band. The formalities over,
the contingents marched off, hooted by the IIT Siren, reminding us that we were behind schedule.
Athletics
Much was expected of us in Athletics and our performance on the
first day lived up to all ex.pectations. .
All our competitors in the lOO m. heats qualified, but A. Trivedi
(KNP) and H. Press (BMB) remain hot favourites with timings of IX.4and II.S sees. respectively.
Manjit, in the 5000 m. finals, took off on a 400 m. sprint in the last
round and left his nearest rival A. P. Aneja, nearly 20 m. behind. V'P' I
the record ,holder, figured nowhere.
In the ItO m. Hurdles heats, Menezes (KNP) and Narendra Kumar
(MDS) both clocked 17.7 seconds.
baljit Singh (DLI) with a record throw of 149' 1.11 came first in the
Discus Throw.
In the Pole Vault,lanky H. M. P. S. Gill 'Vaulted into first position.
'Richard easily shattered the record in his 400 m. heats and it was a
treat to watch him run.

RESULTS
m. Heats
I I. A. Trivedi KNP
2. S. Dasgupta KGP
II 1. H. Press BMB
2. J. Abraham KGP
III I. R. Mahaana KGP
2. M. Thomas MDS
-,5000 m. Finals
1. M. S. Grewal KGP
2. A. P. Aneja KNP
3· Soli Dastur BMB
4· Tiwari KGP
110 m. Hurdles Heats
I I. P. Menezes KNP
2. R. Upadhyay DLI
II I. Narendra Kumar MDS
2. A. Dongre KNP
III I. S. R. Shah BMS
2. N. Samanta KGP
Discus Throw Finals:
1. Daljit Singh DLI
2. R. D. Chillar MDS
3. Roop Jyoti BMB
4. AvoKGP
Pole Vault Finals
100

Time
II.4 sees
II.S sees
11.8

sees

17.7 sees

l7.7 sees
23.6 sees

149' 2"
121' II"
n6' II'"
102' 9"

H. S. Gill KGP
9" 10"
Bhaskaran MDS and Upadhyay DLI
3. V. P. Aneja KNP
4' Sanat Dutta KGP

1.
2.

400

m. Heats
I I.

J. Abraham KGP

V. P. Aneja KNP
II I. M. S. Grewal KGP
2. S. Singhal KNP
III I. R. D'Souza KGP
2. A. P. AD.eja KNP

52.4 sees

2.

55.5 sees
51.1

sees

Footer
KGP showed its mettle from the beginning when Samanta put the
ball between the biirs to give KGP a x-o lead. BMB tried to fight back
but their hopes were shattered by three goals in succession by Arun,
Dadu and Samanta.
In a rather tame match, KNP beat DLI by a solitary goal scored in
extra time.

Volleyball
That DLI was the weaker team was evident. Their mainstays, Bh.alla
and Verma, helped DLI put up the game scores of 10-15, 10-15. BMB's
tight knit teamwork and the game of Panthaky and Palkar was appeal-

ing, apparently justifying their optimism of getting the tl'Ophy, having
now entered the finals.
KNP were not so good as to have extended KGP to 3 games. That
they did, bespeaks of I{GP's poor team work. Sanat and N. P. Singh's
combination at the net was wonderful with Sanat placing and Singh
volleying with precision on the front line. KGP .rushed through the
first game IS-7, lost the second Xl-IS, winning the last comfortably l5-9
to meet MDS in the semi-finals.

Hockey
Madras shocked the much-fancied holders Delhi in the hockey semi~
finals.
A goal by centre-forward Chandrashekhar in the very first minute,
straight from the bully-off proved vital and MDS held on to their lead
with grim tenacity.
.Under the inspiring and dogged Ieadedhip of G. S. Gill, MDS found
themselves quite at home on the fast, bumpy V. S. Hall ground. On the
other hand, DLI, accustomed as they are to a game of neat stick work and
dribbling had every reason to blame the ground. Even with Sudhir
I{umar, DLI were at sea.
Unfortunately, the game was marred by rough hitting and frayed
tempers.
The KNP-BMB match ended in a goalless draw despite extra time.
Finally BMB were tossed out by the flip of the coin, though they were
probably the better team.
Tennis
The matches were one-sided affairs, aU 'Iictories for MDS coming
off straight sets. L. Paul easily won his singles (6-0, 6-0). Ram Kumar
Menon effortlessly overcame left-handed Khosla, and the doubles pair
of Captain Shrikrishnan and Lakshminarayan was aggressive and
trounced Manender Singh. and Kamath-the scores of the latter two
matches being identical (6-3, 6-3).
Though Sitaram fought to finally go down in the first set at 5-7, he
never looked dangerous. Ronnie consolidated his first set victory by
clinching the match with a second set score of 6-1.
Chinu was unwell. He had a great deal of difficulty with. his service
and played below par, going down 1.-6, +-6 to BMB's Ramasubban.
Our home team combined well to beat the doubles pair of Vinod La!
and Ramasubban (6-1, 6-0).
Table Tennis
The quarter-finals between MDS and BMB was of a low standard.
After some desultory play BMB got the upper hand and by winning 5-1.
they made the semi-finals.
In the semi-final, played today, the holders KNP made short work of
DLI. R. Bhargava was too fast for his opppnents. His mastery of the
backhand top spin and flick is complete. The only weak link in KNP's
team seems to be U. P. Singh who lost both his matches, bringing the
final tally to 5-z.

Gymnastics
The first part of the Gymnastics meet concluded today. We were
sorry to know however that MDS were not taking part. KGP began
rather weU with R. K. Pathak getting the first place in the vaulting horse.
The people who really distinguished th~selves, however, were the 1{GP
and BMB coaches who had lively and prolonged discussion about som.e
rules. The Roman rings event began with the KGP and BMB coaches
gi,!ing a demon~tration. BMB, h?wever, asserted their superiority in
thIS event, baggmg the first and thud places. Bombay were leading by
a la~ge margin at the end of the first day" but with three more events to
go, the results are still open to conjectur~.
Basketball
John, with 28 points to his credit and Jain with 25 points saw KNP
to a. clear victory (89-61). Though the defences of both teams lacked
stolidity, KNP's better offence earned them a win.
The KGP-MOS match started off with KGP rushing ahead to a io
point lead. But after half time MDS struck back to score point after
point through T. K. Iswaran (23 pts.). Whi1~ KGP stuck at 50, MDS
basketed repeatedly to collect 20 points more. The erratic shooting
even on free lay-ups proved to be the do\'mfall of an otherwise effective
home team.

We're sorry for not coming to breakfast I

