CAMPASTIMES

4

[January 1970

lIT KHARAGPUR
Volume 10, No.5

20th Decerrt,ber, 1969

OFF THE SECOND LAP ..... .
And on you go, past the second lap of the seventh round. No harm in looking back a b~t. Charlie, .none
very close to ya-the one's ahead? Oh forget them, they're destined to go on for ever so .. , .
ATHLETICS
On were the day's events and off went Richard to clock 23.6 sec.

in the 200 m. heats. Also, KNP's Trivedi, BMB's Sud and sundries
clash for honours in the finals with the lone KGP ranger as a hot
favou.rite.
In the 400 m. hurdles heats, P. Menezes (KNP) performed creditably to clock 60.6 sec. N. Kumar (MDS) and Upadhyay (DLI) are
among others who have made the final grade; Kiran Seth was the only
KGPite to make the same.
Richard was CGntent with just a win in the I,500 m. run, with. Manjit
coming a close second. These two had in fact stranded the rest by
yards in the final lap.
Poor seem the Javelin results as compared to the figures found in
the rotting record-books. That Kumar's (MDS) 166'z" was the best
throw, while the reigning record is t8i and odd. speaks fllr itself.

m. Heats
I 1. R. D'Souza (KGP)
2. Rane (BMB)
II I. A. Trivedi (KNP)
2. R. Upadhyay (DLI)
III I. Suri (BMB)
2. Venkatachalam (D LI)
400 m. Hurdles Heats
I ;r. R. Upadhyay
2. Suri (BMB)
II I. Narendra Kumar (MDS) 62.2 sees.
2. Mankut (BlVIB)
III 1;. P. Menezes (KNP)
2. K. Seth (KGP)
.r,500 m. Finals
I. R. D'Souza (KGP) 4 min. 27.7 sees.
2. M. S. Grewal (KGP)
3. Soli Dastur (BMB)
4. A. P. Aneja (KNP)
Javelin Throw Finals
I. Narendra Kumar (MDS) 166' 7"
2. Daljit Singh (DLI)
3. N. D'Sa (KGP)
4. V. Kaul (BMB)

200

Points tally
BMB : 7 DLI:

II

KGP:

22

KNP: 5 MDS:

II

B~ETBALL
In an exciting semi-final which came to a chaotic finish, BMB edged
out (?) an excellent KNP combo 56-55·
Right from start, it was a • touch~and-go " and the two teams
matched each other in every department of the game, John, the KNP
captain, won the hearts of all with his beautiful conversions of both
offensive and defensive rebounds.
Synchronous with the 'Time-up' whistle, was heard the referee's
c~lI for a foul off KNP; BMB converted the thus-earned • off-time'
ftee throw into a basket) and won 56-55' A pro~est, however, has
been filed by KNP.
G1'MNASTlCS

Due to lack of time, only two of the remaining three events (Parallel
Bars and Horizontal Bars) could be completed. BMB, who were lead~
ing at the end of the first day, retained their position followed by DLI.
With KGP and KNP having faded out of the show, Atul Nath (DLI)
a·nd Arun Prakash (BMB) gave ,excellent performances and only these
t"\VO seem to be in the reck{)fiin~ for the individual championship. With
p~Ily the floor exercises left, :BM13 are sure to win the trophy. At the
ehd of day's events, D. bas, KGP's coach, gave an excellent demonstration of exercises on the Horizontal Bar.
Parallel Bar
Horizontal Bar
I. Arun Prakash (BMB)
r. Atul Nath (DLI)
2. Atut Nath (DLl)
2, Achal Nath (DLI)
3'. Nangiya (BMB)
3. Arun Prakash (BMB)

HOCKEY
KGP romped home winners (1-0) in the semi-final against KNP.
!A. beautiful goal: scored by V. P. Singh in the 1st half, off a Debu pass,
put RGP in the lead. Though not combining very well, KGP forwards
managed to keep up pressure on the KNP backline throughout. Janian
played fine hockey, excelling in his passes. What lacked in KGP was

the ability to convert the short corners. Except on one occasion;
Khurshid's goal-keeping abilities were never under test. ' For ·Kanpur,
their Captain Jegati played well, and custodian R. Kumar brought off
two good saves.
TENNIS
MDS showed their complete mastery ill this field when th..ey putclassed Iu~P in three brief matches.
The Bhargava-Paul encounter, which. attracted a huge crowd from
the stadium, was disappointing. Bhargava was never given .the chance
to get into his stride, and Paul won 6-1, 6-0. Ram Kumar Menon
took just a bit longer to beat Mittal of KNP, 6-2, 6-0, but was :!;lever
in danger of losing. The doubles ·combination of Paul and Meilon
.
played beautifully to beat ~hargava and A. Jagannathan, 6-0, 6-0.
MD8 has definitely lived up to its reputation and is in a d,istinctly
different class fmm the other, IIT's, and sh.ould have no difficulty
in winning the tennis championship.
FOOTBALL
Those of us wh(} formed hasty judgments after witnessing the KGPDLI match Oil the first day, were surprised:to See a vastly improved
KNP team take the field ill the semi~final against Madras today. With
their excellent fonvard attack~ they were undoubtedly the bettel' team
and outplayed MDS. MDS, who were fancied to reach. the finals, were
convincingly defeated 2-0. The finals should be interesting tomorro'\-"
if KNP can maintain the standard we saw today.

VOLLEYBALL
A decidedly better KGP combination convincu'lgly thraslied MDS
(15-3, 15-6) to enter the finals against 11MB. From the begi~ning'KGP
played an attacking game leaving MDS no choice but to defend gamely.
It was, N. P. Singh again who left the MDB six groping l1fter his'power-:packed. volleys. Decidedly he is the best 'player amongst aU the fi:v~
teams. It was heartening to see KGP serving correctly, Rao's high
serves spinning i1).to the crosswind were particu.larly difficult to take~
Though MDS had good lifters, they weren't supplemented by effective smashing. Chillal' bl'ot'!ght off .good saves off some soaring NP
smashes.
If RGP continue to playas they did today, the much fancied
BMB are in for trouble.
TARLE TENNIS

The semi-final turned out to be a much grimmer battle than expec...
ted. BMB put up a very tough fight and almost beat KGP. The 13MB
captain, Karoor, played a steady game to win all his matches. The
KGP players lost their matches due to Dfcrvousness.
In a tense final match with the score at 4-1'>11 George, a fa\'oudte with
the KGP crowd, edged Marballi out of the match with a steady defence that the latter was not used to.
A sobering thought is that if KGP had to try so hard to beat BMB t
they shall have to play even harder if they are to beat KNP in the finals.
BADMINTON
The only match played on 13th was the quarter-final between KNP
and KGP. Agarwal completely outclassed Rajiv Chandra 15-1, IS-II,

A tired Gokarn rallied to win after losing the se.cond game to SonL In
the doubles, a sparkling display of badminton was provided by Kothari
and George (KNP.) whose superb placing and powerful smashing left
Gokarn and Agarwal standing at 14-18, 15-6, IO-IS. In tile reverse
singles, Agarwal beat Soni 15-4, 12-15, 15-8 in a hard-fought match.
Soni's beautiful playing and masterly fil'st court placing had Agarwal in
trouble.
In the semi-finals KGP beat BMB 3-2. Agarwal lost to Kulkarni,
beat Shyam. Gokarn lost to Shyam, beat Kulkarni. OUf dou.bles pair
won.
Inspired by the doubles victory, a vastly improved Gokarn fought
hard and beat a tired Kulkarni. Agarwal, aided by his fantastic stamina:,
settled the issue with a well-deserved win over Shyam.
A heart-throbbing exhibition of vintage:h.ad(hithel'to)minton that's
what it was the D~I-MDS semi-final encounter. Setting aside all gya:Q.
going around that some one took too much • punga' and some one
didn't, the Edwin-Sudhir match was a treat to watch. Edwin serves
Sudhir forehand volley, Edwin seems to have missed this one but 101
whatzzat cockeyed baCk-hand flick sending the shuttle through' zoom'.
and then co~es a killing Sudhir cross-court shot-Edwin drop-shot
Sudhir counter-dr0l' ....•.•... and so on. Sudhir displayed an ex'cellent match tempenunent to clinch the match which seemed an endless
fight, at II-IS. 15-10, t5-9. Capt. Sheopuri (MDS), with his bdl1i~t
smashes, disposed of Dutt IS-II, 15-4- The EdwinMSheopuri combO
was too good f01" Sudhil'+/- Dutt and beat them I8-30, lX-lS, 15-~.
After Sheopuri's gallant yet, losing battle with the invincible Sudhir.
it required only half an Edwin to beat Bhav Dutt and reach MDS to
the final against KGP.

Due to avoidable circumstances, we cauldn't come for breakfast.

