[January 1970

CAMPASTIMES

6

----------------------------------------------

the state of affairs and at one stage the scores
stood at 50-50. With the crowd screaming its;
head off and the atmosphere electric with ten-.
sion, predicting the outcome was an absolute
impossibility. OUT star players Kesavan and
Shivshankar were sent out each with five' personal fouls against him, and were closely
followed by Palanikumar. Kurien, who had
gOlle out of the game at the beginning, came
back into play, and stand-ins Johny and Raja
took a hand. At this crucial junctttre, MDS·
rocketed ahead with superb basketing and
closely knit team work, and finished the match'
62-51. Once again, the MDS crowd went
completely mad. They performed a cross
between the Bahgra, the Zulu war dance, the
highland fling; and the IIT eha-cha-cha.
KGP went back a sadder bllt wiser crowd and
turned out hopefully next morning to practise
for the losing semi-finalists match. Kurien
and Pacha as defenders were outstanding.
P. K. Easwal'an scored 23 points. Kesavan
managed the tepn admirably.
The MDS contingent went back happy and
full of wild enthusiasm and hopes.

The Diary
:18-:12-:1969
Though the inauguration '\\l1S supposed to
start at 8 a.m., it started at 8.30' A number of
speeches were made, including one by the
Director, Prof. Bose. A flare lit up the sky,
and a group of S. Nites (S. N. Hall is the KGP
version of Saray\!.) released multicoloured
balloons. The chief guest, General Kumar,
Q.M.G. of India, spoke.
The first event of the morning was the
xoo metres heats. Mani Thomas came a very
close second in his heat and was selected for
the finals. S. K. Itheshamuddin
and
V. Thamburaj who were entered for the
event, did not turn up for the heats.
5000 Metres final: There were two
runners from MDS, H. P. Tripathi and
Siddh:u·tha, of whom the latter dropped out
in the sixth round. Tripathi stayed the
whole distance and for some time led the field,
which is an achie\Iement, considering the event.
M. S. Grewal of KGP stood first. Tripathi
finished fifth.

Discus Throw: We entered ChiUar and
Sanyal for this event, Chillar came second
with a throw of 122 feet, and Sanya1 came
fifth. First was Da!jit Singh of Delhi with
a throw of 149 feet 2 inches. He was at that
time thought to have beaten the Inter-University record of 148' II:}/I, but later on, the
officials disclosed that the discus was less than
the standard weight.

Pole Vault: Our hero M. Bhaskarall
was doing fine and promised to excel himself.
Competing with H. S. Gill of KGP and
Upadhyay of DLI, he was clearing the bar
in great style. Unfortunately the vaulting
pole broke and jabbed him in the ribs. He
was unable to try any more vauIts : in spite of
'which he came second. First was H. S. Gill
of RGP who cleared 9' 10'f. Bhaskaran and
Upadhylly were bracketted for the second place
and awarded 2.5 points each.

no me(-res hurdles: There were three
heats.. The only competitor from Madras,
Narendra Kumar, led the field and finished
far ahead of his rivals.
400 metres Heats: Mani' Thomas had
pulled a mu.scle and consequently could not
run. Siddhartha didn't take part either.
S. K. Ithcshamuddiu was in the same heat
as Richard D'Souza and Aneja and didll't
stand a chance at all.

I9·I Z-1 969
200 metres heats: None of our runners.
tnrned up for the heats though three of them
(Mani Thomas, Victor Thamburaj, and S. K.
Itheshamuddin) were supposed to.

Javelin Throw: Narcndra K\lJXlar of
MDS sprung the first of his surprises on the

Narendra one up-a common sight
Madras crowd went mad '\vith. jubilation.
had downed the hot faV'ourities.

Table Tennis Quarter.final: We started
off well with Pl'cm WatSI1 winning his first
match after a tough tussle. However, Ranga,
playing strangely out of form, lost his match
in straight games. Rnkcsh Gothi came twice
within all ace of winning in the third match,
but finally lost due to a ch.allce touch, with the
scores at 25-26. He had won one and lost
one game before. The heart wcnt out of the
team after this, and BMB won 5~3. Each of
our players WOIl one match.
Basketball Semi-final:
MDS-KGP.
Madras, playing on a concrete court, ' under
floodlights, before a highly partisan crowd,
lost the initiative and RGP raced to a 10 point
lead. We fought back, but at half-time KGP
led 37-28, and the game seemed to be against
us. The MDS team found it difficult tv
understand the referee's decisions amI were n
little disorganised. However, the latter part
of the second half saw a dramatic reversal of

Tennis Quarter-final: Lionel Paul,
playing with clockwork precision, took every
game 'and scored an impressive victOl'Y over
his opponent from Delhi 6-0, 6-0. R. K.
Menon, won 6-3, 6-3. and only overconfidence
prevented him from doing better. In the
doubles match, Srikdshnan and Lakshminarayanan won with facility 6-:), 6-3,

Hockey Semi-final: Madras entered the
neld 'against last year's champions, Delhi.
and the knowledgeable gave MDS as much
chance for survival as a cube of ice in hell.
DLI were ex.pected to walk through us with no
difficulty. However, our players changed aU
that •. The champions were defeated in a little
under 30 seconds after bully. That was how
long it took centre-forward Chandntsekhar to
push the ball into the DLI goal. It happcned
so fast that e\"eryone, including the DLI goalkeepcr, was caught hopping. The rest of the
match was a furious wrestle for the hall. DLI,
always on the attack, hammered our defences
again, and again, but nothing got past. A
KGP'spectator, speculating on the possibility
of D~l getting past' the Surd' (Gus, of course)
was proved wrong. for very little did get past
Gus. Ranjan made some great saves, and
together they kept the defence .impregnable.
DLI were still fighting desperately when tile
referee's' whistle w~nt for full-time, and the

We

Meet when he hurled the javelin the farthest
to collect 5 points for Madras. Daljit Singh,
the hero of the discus event, came a close
second. Sanyal and ChilIar, who were entered
for the event, didn't turn up. David Robyparticipated in place of Chillar and made it to
thefinaJ.
400 metr.e s hurdles heats: lumping,
for all the 'yorld like a rare mountain goat,
Narendra Kumar cleared hurdle after hurdle
to lead the field all the way round the 400 metre
track. He was the only MDS athlete to
qualify for the final.

ISOO metres final: MDS entered three
runners, but it didn't do them any good.
Richard D'Souza and M. S. Grewal of KGF
took the first and second places.

Tennis Semi-final: MDS sliced through
KNP like It hot knife through butter. Lionel
Paul beat Bhargavl1 of KNP 6-1,6-0, the only
remarkable point being the one game Lionel
conceded. R. K. Menon Was in great form
and won a facile 6-2, 6-0 victory. In the
doubles, the same pair scored a thumping
6-0, 6-0 vic~ory and sealed KNP's fate.
Volleyball Semi-final: MDS were outclassed in- the semi~final by KGP. KGP,
displaying remarkable team work and some
brilliant volleying and placing, finished the
game in recol'd time with scores of 15-3, 15-4.

Football Semi~1inal: KNP defeated MDS
~-o to enter the final

M. S. Grewal after 5000 Metres!

against KGP. The MDS
team, who were counting on an easy victory,
were proved dismally wrong. However, the
outcome didn't surprise some, who, like
Dr. Klein, had noticed the total disinclination.
of the footer t~am to try anything eVell.
remotely resembling practice. We were overconfident and completely disorganised. Victor
Thamburaj, Bhaskaran and Roby up in front
and Patel and Ajit Puran at the back, saved
the match from becoming a fiasco. MDS now
had to pull up their socks and try to make up
in the losing semi-finalists match to make the
third place, poor consolation though that would
be. Anupam Sen's absence was rather
noticeable as there was no efficient feeding of
the forwards. Why he had to be absent is a
matter Which, perhaps, only he can convincingly explain. An unexpected and totally
unwarranted change from the original 4-2-4form.ation to a 5-2-3 formation· created a gap
in the defence too large for even Chandran
Ratnaswamy to deal with. The efforts to
make up in the second half proved futile as
there was no proper finishing at the ~oal-mouth.
KNP were lucky to find MDS in such bad .
form.

