Januaty 1970]

CAMPASTIMES

Badminton semi-final: MDS-DLI (3-2).
That bald statement conveys nothing of
the thrills and upsets packed into the drawnout encounter. The DLI star player, Sudhil:
Kumar, caused a major shock by defeating
Edwin Srinivasan It-15. 15-10, 15-9.
Though Edwin's technique and freak shots
should have given him the advantage, he
could not get his drops correct, and frequently
played into the net. Sudhir, playing a power
game, took the match after a scintillating display of badminton. In the second singles
match, Capt. Sheopuri defeated the DLI no 2,
Dutt, in straight games without much difficulty.
Sheopuri's smashes were brilliant and there
was no. doubt .about his superiority. The
doubles' encounter was the crucial and
deciding one, and provided thrill upon
thrill. Edwin and Sheopuri combined exquisitely to keep the crowd gasping. The
DLI pair played well, especially Sudhir
Kumar, and provided the resistance necessary
to. make the matcli interesting. The final
scores of 18-13, II-IS, 15-6, give but a poor
indication of how the match proceeded. In
the first of the reverse singles, our gallant
Capt. Sheopuri met Sudhir Kumar in a match
of unbeatable smashes and impossible returns.
Sheopuri took the first game but Sudhir Kumar
played tenaciously and recovered to register,
a narrow victory. The last match of the night
was 'howh~re near as exciting by comparison,
and Edwin made short work of Dutt with
scores of lS-4. 15-3.

Footer in the ail' (l'S KNP)
(The MDS·DLI semi-final which was
scheduled to start at ,-00 p.m. actually started
at 10-30 p.m. as the other semi-final match
between Bombay and Kharagpul' couldn't be
finished in time. The MDS-DLI semi-final
carried on till 2~J.0 a.m. This should be an
indication to our organisers thai: more time
be al.\~~ved for the badminton matches in
the MOS Meet).
20..12'''196 9.

High Jump: In this event, the first place
was .. taken by. S. R. Shah. of Bombay.
Narendra Kumar cleared the same height as
two: others but was placed fourth due to foul
jwnps)em-lier. This earned MOS one point
in 'the· athtetics tally. Kannan didn't take
part'in the event.
Shot Put: bnly Chillar took part though
Sany-al and Muthanna were also entered for
MbS: Daljit Singh of DLI heaV'ed the shot
to a new record of 40' 8".

Football losing semi-finalists: The
MDS team, led by M. M. Sanyal, did it yet
once more. Playing against Bombay who were
yet to prove Our most dangerous rivals for the
second place in the general championship, we
conceded the match Z-4. Thus MDS were
denied even the meagre consolation of the two
points that went \vith the third place. Instead
they gifted them to BMB in spite of Bl\IlB's
indifferent play.
Hockey final: KGP-MDS (1-0). KGP
won, the more impetuous l\1:adrasis assert,
fielding a thirteen man team, two of them playing with whistles. Our team played well and
were tmfortunate in not getting the gold.
Both victory and defeat are a part of the game,
and we call only'Say • well tried! ' to our team.
Volleyball losing semi~finaIists: DLIMOS. Our team recovered magnificently
after the shattering defeat at the hands of KGP
in the semi-final. The MOS six defeated DLI
in straight games I5-lI, 15-9' The hours of
'practice our team put into the game paid off i
and this might serve as an example to some.
Basketball final: BMB-MDS (67-62).
MDS forged ahead in the first few minutes and
were leading BMB by 10 points. P. K.
Easwaran was doing a fine job of covering
Kaul of BMB, rendering him ineffective. But
very soon he had four fouls against him and
Kesavan had to take him out of the game to

7
do something about it. They played a fantastic game, taking point after point to win the
game at 18-13: In the second game they
overwhelmed the KGP pair 15-3 to take the
doubles.
The first reverse singles in which Edwin
met Agarwal settled the issue conclusively.
The Tamil Nadu Champion walked through
15-3, 15-4, and the gold was ours. Hoarse
with the day's cheering, the MDS spectators
joined the victory dance and set off firecrackers
to add some kick to the savour of triumph.
21-12- 1 969-

The last day of the Meet.
zoo metres final: The only Mach;as
runner to qu,alify was Mani Thom31l who
finished fourth, thus earning MOS another
point in the athletics tally. A KNP rwmer,
Trivedi, took the first place witll a timing of
II.6 sees.
Hammer Throw: Daljit Singh ,of· DLI
broke the record witll a throw of 101'. 4"Our athletics captain earned us two points
by taking the third place. Sanyal and
Mut~anna who were supposed to take part,
were nowhere on the scene.
IIO metres hurdles : : Narendra Kumar
hurdled his way to finish in a teco~d time of

1500 M.-Richie D'SOllZ" ·in the lead-as usual
reserve him for a more pressing time. R. D.
ChiHal' was \visely (?) included to cover Kau.l.
but 130011 Chillal' was out too, with five fouls
against him. The scores at half-time were
31-28: BMB leading. Our team hung on,
and ,a few minutes before close of play, were
trailing by 3. points. Th.en the BMB coach.
brought" in a new player who basketed with a
side throw. When the • time-up' whistle
went, BMB were leading by 5 points to win at
67~62. The fact that BMB had their coach
with them while we hadn't, was keenly felt
and. probably had au important effect on the
outcome. Our star player, Easwarall, was out
'of the game for most of the time and towards
the end om' shooting became erratic and mispasses freqt\ent. But we were always tl:ying
and were unlucky, in that our efforts didn't
pay -off better.

800 metres tun: Tripathi, Katnath and
Sidq.nartha were entered but did not take part.
KGP swiped the first three places and BMB
took "the fourth.

Badminton ·final: MDS-KGP (3-1).
This was regardect ,by some as a mere formality:· KGP, who were lucky to enter the
final, were considered no match for MDS.
However, KGP started off well when Agarw'al
beat .Capt. Sheopuri 18-17, :r5~6. Edwin
retumed the compliment when he polished off
Gokam 15-9, IS~4 in the second singles.

400 metres hurdles: Ow, hero, Narendra
Kumar, led the chase to clock 58.6 sees., :1
ne\". record. The remarkable feature was that
he ran with,an injured foot and was completing
the 4tio metres circuit for the second time in
his; life (the first time was in the heats).

The doubles match was a treat to watch.
In the first game, the MDS pair fumbled round
to concede a 12-0 lead to ~garwal .& Gokarn,
and the KGP crowd was yelling fit. to burst.
Edwin & Sheopuri took stock of the situation,
saw that it wasn't too good. and .decided to

r6.7 secs."and celebrated his triumph byhurd-·
too.
ling the

taF

Triple jump: Narendra Kumar of MDS
did it again in the triple jump, coming first
by covering 41' 7"' The record h~ld by
Minoo Kalappa of MDS is 44' 1 II' . M. S.
Choudhry; took the fourth. place, giving MDS
another pqint.
Relay .. X 100 metres: Both the BMB
a11d KGP teams broke the record. Bombay
clocked 45.3 sees. to come first, while KGP
and KNP ran neck and neck for the second and
third places respectively.' MOB had' to run
with a makeshift team and didn't quite make
the scene.
Relay .4 x 400 metres: The favow-ites,
KGP, were without doubt the fastest, settin~
up a new record of 3 m. 33.3 ,sees. BMB,
fighting hard for a few points to put them in
the second place in the athletics tally, were
beaten by KNP to the second place. MDS
·and DLI didn't complete the course.
The exhibition hockey match, ostensibly
between KGP, the champions, and the rest
()f the lITs, resolved itself into n match between KGP and DLI, last year's holders.
MDS refused to take part as a protest against
the refereeing ill the final. The KNP
goalkeeper played with the DLI team. The
Chief Gttes.t's XI (DU) def~ated·· lhe
President's XI (KGP). 1-0.
e.

