C·A.MPASTIMES

8

ALAhJ~AR

[January 1970

lIT KHARAOPUR
Volume 10, No. 6

21st Dece.,-,ber, 1969

•
KGP In
sight of victory!
ATHLETICS
Two records were broken in the events held on the 3rd day. Daljit
Singh of DLI, having earlier smashed the discus record, established a
new high of 40' 8" in shot put.
Narendni. Kumar of Madras clipped 1.2 sec. off the previous best
timing for the 400 m. hurdles.
The KGP runners dominated the show in the 800 m. That three of
the first four places in the event went to KGP is ample indication of
KGP's superiority in this department.
The High Jump event proved a great disappointment. The highest
.
reached was 5' 6" while the previous best r~cord is 5' 10~".
With only one day left, KGP have virtually become the Athlet1cs
Champions. A big lead of 23 points over the nearest rivals MDS, has
ascertained us 20 valuable points in the general tally.
200 m. Finals
I. R. D'Souza (KGP) 23.3.sec.
2. Trivedi (KNP).
3. R. Upadhyay (DLI).
4. Muthukrishnan (BMB).
High Jump
1. S. R. Shah (BMB) 5' 6".
2. S. Roy (KGP).
3. P. Menezes (KNP).
4. Narendra Kwnar (MDS).

attacking table tennis by Bhargava (KNP) _and Sub~oto (KGP). The
latter matched the U.P. number tWo shot for shot but was not as consistent. Sengupta brought about KNP's victory by :winning his second
match, against Saxena, in straight sets. )t was a gloomy, disheartened
crowd that dispersed after this, because Saxena showed none of the fire
which had marked his earlier encounter '>vith Bhargava. In this match
Saxena started off magnificently by smashing 6 times to lead 6~o. He
lost this first game but extended the champ to 3 sets.
Immediately after the 7th game Bhargava left for Bangalore to take
part in the Nationals. We wish him all the best.

GYMNASTICS
As predicted.yesterday, BMB won the Gymnastics by a comfortable
margin. Al'Un Prakash (BMB) and Atul Nath (DLI) performed very
well in the Floor exercises. Arun Prakash won the individual championship with Atul Nath a close second.
Considering the amount of practice we had, KGP performed well.
Our successes were entirely due to our coach Mr. bilip Das. Perhaps, if
the Gymkhana could arrange for permanent coaching, KGP could offer
stiff opposition next year.

Floor Exercises
I. A. Prakash (BMB)
2. Atul Natll (DLI)
3. A. K. Nangia (KNP)

Weightlifting
I. Om Vikash (KNP)
z. S. C. Agarwal (KNP)
3. Ajit Kumar (KNP)

Mr. Sttongman

Mr. lIT

1.

Shot Put
x. Daljit Singh (DLI) 40' 8" (New Record).
2. P. Naik (KNP).
3. Avo (KGP).
4. R. D'Souza (KGP).
:800 m. Run

R. D'Souza (KGP) 2. min 7.4 sec.
M. S. Grewal (KGP).
3. J. Abraham (KGP).
4. S. bastur (BMB).

I.
2.

-400 m. Hurdles
I. Narendra Kumar (MDS) 58.6 sees.
2.. P. Menezes (KNP).
3. R. Upadhyay (DLI).
4. A. Suri (BMB).

(New Record).

FOOTBALL
Confronted by a strong KNP back line) KGP found it difficult
to get off the mark in the final. Yet our forwards successfully found
their way through the Kanpur defence many a time, and it was only
Menezes) the menace, who stood· between KGP and victory. KGP had
to be content with a solitary goal scored in the 2nd half by Nansen) which
"brought them victory. Otherwise, many a sitter went a~begging.
In Nishit we had a wonderful outside left and Dadu was his usual self
at the half line.
In the losing semi~finalists match, Bombay beat Madras 4-2 in a match
of uneven exchanges.

'BADMINTON
In a final which was largely a formality, the only interesting match
was the first singles between Agarwal (KGP) and Sheopuri (MDS). In
a very closely contested first game Agarwal edged Sheopuri out 18-17.
In the second, he was clearly superior and won 15~6. Champ Edwin had
no difficulty in winning both his matches, at 15-9, 15~4 against Gokarn
and 15:-.3, IS~4 against Agarwal.
. After rattling up a 12-0 lead, the gallant pair, Gokarn and Agarwal
were beaten inexorably by Edwin and Sheopuri.
The losing semi-final between BMB and DLI provided some thrills
when Kulkarni (BMB) won both his singles, peating Sudhir Kumar (DLI)
in one of -them. Thus, last year's holders, DLI, winning 3-2, had to,
fight hard to earn their two points this time.
TABLE TENNIS
For the third time in succession KGP has gone down in the finals
to KNP. KGP looked set for victory allowing Bhargava wins in all his
matches. The crucial match, a tense, defensive battle, ·was between
George (KGP) and Sengupta (KNP) in which the latter \Von"in 3 games.
The score levelled at 3-a11, the next match. was a wonderful display of

2.

3.

Kuldip Singh (MOS) 5.32
Harbans La! (KGP)
Om Vikash (KNP)

Individual Championship
I. A. Prakash (BMB) 99,53
2. Atul Nath (DLI) 92.80
3. C. Kotwal (BMB) 90.42

Bhattacharjee (KGP)
Om Vikash (KNP)
3. B. Sinha (KNP)

I.
2.

Team Championship
Bombay
264.83
244.64
z. Delhi
3. Kharagpur 199.81

1.

TENNIS
MDS gave further proof of their superiority by beating KGP, last
year's holders, 3-0. The finals began with Lionel Paul overwhelming
R. Datta 6-0, 6·0. On the other court Menon encountered some resistance before downing Srinivasan 6-3. 6~4. Though' Chinu' played
spiritedly in the doubles his brief but game struggle served only to prolong MDS's victory in straight sets. 6-3, 6-3.

HOCKEY
KGP-MDS (1000)
Kharagpur won the gold in hockey, beating Madras by a solitary goal
in the final on Saturday.
In a drab and listless encounter, Madras could make no headway
against the home team with ' Buddo' Sinha confidently warding off any
stray attacks. With KGP's forwards making sporadic though un-coordinated raids into the Madras ' D'. Khanigpur were never in any trouble.
The only goal of the match came from S. B. Dutta.

BASKRTBALL
MDS, the favourites, were off to a fiying start and were leading within
a few minutes. They lost the initiative, but played casually while BMB
basketted repeatedly. With hardly about five minutes left, and with
BMB leading 49-40, they made desperate attempts to equalise. But
BMB kept sconng steadily and maintained their lead to, win 67~62.
V. KauI, though constantly marked, played brilliantly to score 3S points.
Captain Keshav scored 18 points for MDS while their star Iswaran, who
scored zo points, was off the court most of the time with 4 fouls against
him.
In the losing semi-final KNP beat KGP 69-43 scoring the vital points
in extra time.

VOLLEYBALL
Confident after their two previous victories KGP played a vigorous
game keeping the crowd in fine humour and the scoreboard in motion.
Shinde was the epitome of a steady centre man incessantly feed4tg"the.
very effective Sanat.Singh duo at net. For BMB Nadkarni was the
only one who exerted himself while Panthaky proved to be a liability
fouling too often at net. Winning the first game (15-9) KGP found it
harder going in the second having to fight a rallying BMB alL the way to
clinch the game (I6~I4). The third game saw KGP in its element
volleying, placing, aceing to lead a bewildered· BMB 13-0. Inevitably
KGP decided to relax and BMB seized t).te chance to bring some r~specta­
bility to the score ultimately losing the game (8~15) and the gold (0-3.).

