[J anuary

CAM PAS TIM E S

12

1970

The Break-up Dinner and
Victory Procession
A

400 M. Hurdles . •. record

THE UNFORTUNATE NARENDRA KUMAR
The winner of the individual championship
in athletics in the seventh Inter-IlT Meet
was Richard D'Souza of Kharagpur with 2r
points. Second was Daljit Singh of Delhi
with 19 points, and third was Narendra Kumar
of Madras with 16 points. The position could
very easily have been drastically different.
A<:tually, Narendra Kumar had 21 points to
his credit, but' unfortunately' the hop-stepand-jump .ev~nt was not among his declared
events. But'for this error in forecasting', he
would have been joint holder of the title with
Richie D'Souza. " That tlJOllld have been something to write home about. To walk away
with the ch,ampio,nship in ol1~'s first appearallce
at the\rlltei. ';rIT'Meet,'is no"meall" achievement
QY ·any standards; and that's what, in effect,
oJ.!,r prodigy would have done. BlLt for that
, Vnfortunate' piece of declaring, that is.
W"hatever the explanations, they call be but
poor co~solai:ion to the unfortunate Narendra
Kumar.

LL good programmes begin or end with !L
dinner and our hosts at KGP were determined to make their programme for the Meet as
good as any. So a-dining we went on the last
evening of the Meet, after the prize distribution and closing ceremony. Students traditionally have phenomenal appetites and the hectic
events of the day were of the type that arouse
a feeling of famine in one's interior. 'Ve
gathered on the lawns outside the Netaji
Sub has Chandra Bose Auditorium in the cold
evening air and waited for the grub to arrive
in trucks. Clustering in knots and groups, \',"C
kept a wary eye on the progress of the grub
from the trucks to the counters, and the moment it was properly laid out, away we did
charge. Sounds of contented sJluffling !!rId
hogging rose to the sky. . . . need we say
more?
Somebody had set up a P.A. system and
voices filtered out to us over the sounds of
hungry people getting theirs. Big shots were
making speeches, as big shots always will,
and people with nothing else to do paid desultory attention to the words being broadcast.
However the announcement that there would
be a victory procession after the dinner, caught
our attention. Victory procession? Completewith blazing torches and riotous song and
dance? Sure thing !
Out of the Institute gates we poured, raising
a din fit to wake the dead, singing songs no
maiden should hear, dancing through strange
and original figures and evolutions. Somebody hung a folding chair from his shoulders
and kept banging away 011 it for all he was
worth; somebody grabbed a cycle-rickshaw
and converted it into a drum-carringe ; somebody else led the curiously violent stone-age
dance. A mirthful crowd tagged along
excitedly to see the fUll nnd laugh at what was
laughable,.
.
A quiescent campus looked interrogatively
at us as we invaded hall after hall, inviting the
inmates to come out and join us. Someone
threw out a brilliant suggestion. 'Why not
go to SN Hall? The ladies would surely be
glad to welcome u.s! No sooner was the

suggl!stion made than the vanguard daslled
off in the direction of SN Hall. Were the
ladies surp,tised to see the noisy victory procession invade the grounds of their hall?
Yes, and delighted! They witnessed a dance,
the like of which they had never seen before,
and savoured the tumultous din of the celebrating songsters. "Ve hope they didn't hear
the exact words the immoderates bawled out.
The songs were pretty indistinct by that time,
anyway. Someone hoarsely asked for some
water, and an SNite ran to fetch some. A
moment-later, scores of opportunists were pretending to be desperately thirsty and croaking
out requests for 'watCl". They got the water all
right: a sight more than they asked for. Goodnight, SN Hall, and sweet dreams 1 And thanks
for being so sporting and putting up Witll us.
The procession, by now resolved into a
mixture of KGP and MDS devil-may-cares,
st<\rted off on the next leg of its circuit round
the campus. A jeep was commandeered i < , •
and inched along under It burden of inebriated
humanity hanging precariously from all sides.
The jokes grew coarser, the limericks bawdier,
a.nd the songs became absolutely unmentionable. The weak at heart dropped out and
let the rough ones and the Sardarjis enjoy
themselves into a state of babbling incoherence
and roaring obscenity.
The happenings of the night were not over
yet. There was ye oide tea shoppe joint near
the gate, and those thirsty for tea or more
companionship drifted along there, to talk
llnd sing and have a good time. Someone
had a guitar, someone suggested, a song, and
someone eI8e started it off. Soon the midnight tea party was sailing men'ily along. vVe
sat and sang at the mstic table well into the
ncJ..'t day, delighted at each fresh sally and
each new song. But we hadn't forever on our
hands, and the party had to cJ;ld, "The com:pany parted, by now all old friends and jolly
good fenm~. Come next year to Madras, we
told our KGP friends, and we'll give you a
right royal time. And you can get your booj:s
we will ! .... for they are jolly good fellows,
they are jolly good feI-lows ....

•
j"he

pri~e

j)isfributio'l and

:Jhe Closiqg Ceremoll!l
Mr Naresh Kumat', former captain of the
Indian tennis team, was the chief guest at
the Closing Ceremony. The function .started
with a speech by Prof Bose, the Dltector,
followed by the march past. Mr Naresh
Kumar briefly addressed the participants in the
Meet stressing the importance of doing one's
oest in any endeavour. Then he distributed
the' prizes. When the procession of proud
trophy-bea~ers had ended, Dr Klein ~~dressed
the gathenng preparatory to recelvmg the
Inter-IIT flag on behalf of the Madr~s contingent. He regretted that MO.S, unlike the
other four IIT's, could not prOnilSe reasonably
dry weather at this time of the year, and said

that there was a distinct possibility of
having to hold '400 metres puddles'
and 'hop, slip & slump' eyents in place
the more customary dry land exercises.
He assured them that w~ would endeavour to
uphold the high standards set by the previous
hos'ts, and that we were not altogether without
exp.erience in hosting the Meet. With that,
the flag was lowered and Dr Klein received
it., The crowd dispersed while the Madras
contingent set off firecrackers to celebrate
their success.

of

Against Delhi.

Fourth encounter.

They Lost.

Again.

Edited by P. C. Venkatachelam, Published by Prof. S. Sampllth and Printed by C: E. Roshy at the Di~~~s;; Pres~ 'fo~ irid'iah-I~stit~t~ ~f-Tech~olo~r: M~~-;:--

