6
The Seminar was noteworthy for the participation in it, over a period of four
days, of a galaxy of Scientists, Technologists, Educationists, Administrators and
Industrialists from different parts of India. The discussions were lively and frank and
were productive of a set of recommendations which were placed before the Seminar
participants, as a whole, on the concluding day and adopted as a set of documents
containing guidelines for the reorganization of technical education, at the national
level, in the interest of the country's industrial development in the years ahead. The
Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, Government of India, proposes to bring
out the complete Proceedings of the Seminar in printed form in the near future.
The recommendations that crystallised out of the Seminar as a result of the
discussions that took place under the four groups are given below:GROUP I

EDUCATJ()~

AND TRAINING OF ENGINEERS FOR
RESEARCH, DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT WORK

1. Engineers, whose professional careers will extend during the next three
decades, wilJ be educated during the decade 1970-80. All of us therefore face the
challenge of providing the type of technical education which these students will need
for at least ten to fifteen years after graduation. ReorientIng technical education
therefore requires information on the professional needs of the society, a detailed
analysis of the existing professional curricula and a feed back of the results of the past
curricula.
The design and maintenance of a professional curriculum therefore
necessitates a dynamic continuing process of formulation.
This Group recommends the establishment of an Educational Development
Center to co-ordinate the various curriculum development centers that have been
established as part of the Quality Improvement Program in technical education during
the Fourth Plan period. It will also concern itself wIth the development of suitable
text-book material, teaching aids, laboratory innovations and prepare a library of
case studies on design projects. This Center should disseminate the information to
all the institutions in the country. Each institution could use the material thus
provided for formulating its own currIculum, laboratory and design courses and
projects.
2. Emphasis in design and laboratory course~ should be on inculcating a
habit of engineering methodology, such as dealmg with open ended problems,
importance of decision-making, innovation and ability to use instruments properly,
logical sequences in lTIodelJing expenmentally, etc. Such an emphasis should culmInate
in undertaking pre-planned, viable small projects. In order to enable the ColJeges to
implement such programs, this Group recommends to State and Central Govern-

