7
ments that, besides provision of faculty and establishment salaries, financial grants to
the institutions, viz., recurring and non-recurring, should be increased to enable
students to undertake project work both at the 'undergraduate and postgraduate
levels. A National index should be evolved by the All India Council for Technical
Education for this purpose, so that it does not vary from State to State. In the
recurring grant to the Institutions, provison should also be made for supporting
faculty ~searcb.
3. This Group reiterates that the first Degree Course in Engineering should be
of five years' duration irrespective of the duration of school education and that the
Master's Degree should be of two years' duratIon.
This Group also recommends that a three-year post B Sc. course in Engineering
be offered in selected institutions and reiterates the recommendation of the AICTE
that both five-year and three-year degree courses in the same fields should not be
offered in the same Institution.
4. The objective of keeping technologically up-to-date is not beyond the reach
of at least a majority of engineers. In order to avoid obsolescence, continuing
education is a must throughout the professional career of engineers in Industry. This
Group therefore recommends that facilities should be made available in at. least
twenty engineering institutions in the country for continuing education of engineers
from industry. It is felt that engineers should come back to the academic environment, at least once in three years, for short duration courses extenaing from one week
to four weeks. In order that this recommendation can be implemented by these
institutions, addltional faculty with some contingency grant may have to be prOVIded
for the same.
5. The Group felt that one of the serious impediments in the raising of the
standard of technical education is the lack of academic freedom and autonomy in
most engingering institutions in the country. There was a feeling expressed that some
of the well developed institutions should be declared as autonomous colleges on the
lines recommended by the Kothari CommissIon on EducatIon. In order that technical
education and research can be effectively developed in the coming decades, the Group
felt that the establishment of a Technical UniversIty in each State, to which a11 the
Engineering Colleges may be affiliated with varying degrees of academic freedom and
autonomy, is deslfable. The Group also recommended that an accredItation body be
constItuted by the AICTE to make recommendations to the State Technical University
on the grant of autonomous status to well-developed institutions.
The Group recommends that the existing institutions which are already deemed
to be Universities should not come withiq the purview of the State Technical

