8
University. The State Technical University should deal only with graduate and
postgraduate engineering education and research. It should not concern itself with
Polytechnic education, which falls under the purview of the State Directorate of
Technical Education.
6. The Group recommends that steps shou1d be taken to promote effective
teaching by the Faculty of engineering institutions. In order to promote effective
teaching ability of the' faculty members, a well-organized training program with
emphasis on pedagogical skills, examination and evaluation techniques is of prime
necessity in all the institutions. Teachers should be encouraged to evolve for their
own benefit self-evaluation tee hniques. Promotion poliCIes should take into account
good teaching, design and development accomplishments and research publications on
par.
7. Faculty members in engineering institutions should be given sabbatical
leave to enable them to work in industry or National laboratories or in other
technical institutions. The main objective of this programme is to facilitate the
Faculty to engage in professional pursuits. The Faculty members should be permitted
to receive honoraria from the organizations concerned during this period.
8. Short and long-term exchange of Faculty members between engineering
institutions should be actively encouraged. Financial incentives should be incorporated
in these bilateral exchange programs.
9. The Group discussed at length the role of Computers in engineering
education. The Group strongly recommends the establishment of large Regional
Computer Centers. Educational institutions in the region should be allowed the use
of this facility. Necessary financial assistance to the institutions for utilising the
computer facilities should be given on the folJowing basis ;-

i.

ii.
iii.

Rs.

53/- per undergraduate student per year

Rs. 100/- per postgraduate student per year
Rs. 200/- per Faculty member per year.

In addition to setting up Regional Computer Centers, this Group recommends that
institutions should be provided with a small Analogue Computer and a small educational type Digital Computer for training purposes. It was indicated to the Group
that the total cost of such a facility may not exceed Rs. 3. 00 lakhs.
10. The Group recommends that the Science Departments in the technical
institutions should be encouraged to do research in their specialities. In order that
the Faculty of the Science Department~ can interact with their counter-parts in the

