9
Engineering Departments and to promote inter-disciplinary research, provision
-should be made for research fellowships/scnolarships with suitable grants for contingencies in the Science Department of these institutions.
Engineering institutions should be provided with full time Research Assistants
for carrying out research of interest to the industry.
The Group is of the view that collaboration between institutions,
and National Laboratories should be actively encouraged. In order that
this may be achieved, the Group makes the following recommendations:] 1.

lndu~tries

(a) Co-operative undergraduate an:! postgraduate programs in some selected
institutions.
(b) Faculty consulting for industry at all levels should be encouraged. There
-appears to be a need to liberalise the rules governing faculty consultancy. Institutions
-should be enabled to credit, any funds received for sponsored projects from industry,
to a separate Industrial Liaison Fund, which could be utilized for developing new
facilities. It should not be taken into account as receipts for purposes of arriving at
annual grants to the institutions.
(c) Industry-Education interaction can be advanced by instituting a program
.of residencies in industries. The faculty member should occupy a position as paid
.employee of a Company for periods ranging from three months to one. year, in close
association with senior engineers whose positions involve decision-making. This may
.also be extended to National Laboratories.
(d) The Group recommends appointment of Visiting Faculty from industrial
organizations and research laboratories. The visiting faculty members should be
pelmitted to direct design/development/research projects.
(e) Engineers in industry should be encouraged to return to an academic
environment, on what might be termed industrial sabbatical leave.
Scien1 ists and engineers in industry should be enabled to do their Master's
and Doctoral dissertation in industries or National Laboratories. where specialised
facilities exist. They could be guided in their dissertation work by joint-guides, one
from the industry and the other from the academic institution concerned.
(f)

(g) Assistance to industry by technical instituttons can also be facilitated by
-organizing inter-disciplinary research and development groups in specific areas. These
R~search and Development panels can discuss with engineering teams from industry,
identify problems requiring solutIon and undertake collaborative programs.
Engineering institutions should extend library and bibliographical facilities to
industries.

