11

3. Divergification should not lead to narrow specialization. Diversified
courses should generally be br-lad based with groups of electiv~s offered in the final
year of study. This will ensure that tbe horizontal mobllityof technicians is not
impaired.
4. The structure and the content of the diversified courses must be constantly
reoriented with the changing need of industry and commerce in the region.
However, there is ample scope for functional specializations in the fields of chemical
technology, petro~chemicals, instrumentation and control, man made fibre,
.electronics, etc.
5. The broad spectrum of the structure courses mugt include full time regular,
full time sandwich, part time, evening and full and part time post diploma courses.
Special courses have to be devised for persons working in industry and for those who
.come through I. T. I's.

6.

Diversified courses should be started in those institutions where the need for
such courses is fully established.

7.

The success of these courses will greatly depend on the freedom and
flexibility given to the institution in the matter of offering cQurses,
curriculum planning, examination and evaluation.

(b) Sandwich Courses and) PracticaI{ Training
1.

The present polytechnic courses are not effectively supplemented by practical
Training in industry to equip the diploma-holder to shoulder professional
responsibilities in industry and commerce. Sandwich courses will be ablo
to rectify the present situation to a very large extent and hence the
importance of organising Sandwich.

2.

Besides introduction of sandwich courses where possib1e, attention has to
be paid to improve the quality of practical training given in the polytechnics
by way of
(a) Accent in developing innovative skills in the technician by setting up
simple projects related to industrial situations.
(b) Making the staff members themselves ge-t acquainted with live industrial
situations and encouraging them to solve these problems.
(c) Arranging industrial training for teachers.

