16
Adequate funds and personnel should be provided for the proposal on the
advice of the Boards.
The Seminar was of the opinion that adequate and appropriate a~sociation of
local industry and the in~titutions also is necesc;ary for the Boards to effectively ensure
industrial participation to cater to the institutional aspirations. Industrial llaisotl
Units should be provided in aU Technical institutions.

(b) Technical Teachers' Training
and to m'!~t
the rapid changes in industrial education, the seminar recommends the following:

To produce a trained body of CJmpetent and adaptable

t~achers,

1.

A wen structured teachers' training program of a long term basis incorporating technical, industrial and educational studies to be designed so
that the end products would be considered to have a full professional
status.

2.

A post professional program involving key and senior experienced
teachers for educational research, curriculum development, and productionof resource materials, must be instituted.

3.

In addition to the normal activities (viz. 1 & 2 above), the Technical
Teachers' Training Inst'tutes should institute crash program for aLl faculties
of technical institutions in the areas of teaching methods, laboratory
techniques and examination and evalution techniques.

To hasten the process qf trainin!!, the existing and other institutions whicb
have developed or have the potential of developing the necessary expertise be identitied and assisted for conducting the above programs.
ShOFt programs should also be instituted3 (i)

in the design and con<;truction of demonstration and laboratory equipment to supplement class room teaching and in 1he design of effective
laboratory experiments and practical projects.

(ii)

for the preparation of tests and problems for use in the class rooms,
tutorials, laboratories and workshops.

4. In order that the students coming from schools be given some orientation ill
English which is the medium of instruction in technical institutions, teachers of Englisll
in these institutions be afforded programs suited to meet the above situation.

