17
5.

Courses are to be instituted at the CTIs for teachers who are involved in
workshop skill at the technical institutions.

6.

Plans should be drawn at the regional, state and institutional levels for the
training of teachers. This would help the programing of courses to suit
the specific needs of the individual teacheri sponsored by the various institutions. Due recognition be given to the usefulness of the in-service
programs so that the teachers are sufficiently motivated for better performance after graduation.

7.

To make an effective contribution to changes in the educational structure
and to employ a degree of geographical and institutional mobility in the
profession by key people, a pool of professional teachers at the National
level may be created. They could be attached to different institutions in the
country to effect the desired change in the teaching situations

8.

The seminar recommends that senior technical teachers shou1d be deputed
to Industry from time to time, and senior persons from Industry to the
Institutions, so that there is constant exchange of ideas and resultant
improvement in each others professional competence.

9.

The seminar recommends that each industry may be requested to designate
a technically qualified officer specifically to evolve, supervise alld evaluate
tea.cher trainees deputed for industrial training.

(c) Manpower Assessment
The group, recognising the need for realistic manpower assessment in the context of technical education development in general and of continuing education in
particular, and taking note of the present efforts being made in this regard, recom"
mends as follows:
1.

Detailed manpower assessment should be made immediately at decentralised
levels in major industries, in States and by speciaJities of engineering and
technology and skills.

2.

Such an assessment should endeavour to analyse the engineering occupations
in industry by requirements of knowledge and skills at different levels of
responsibility both as at present and. if possible as in the near future.
There should be properly determined job-specifications in industry which
should provide the base for realistic manpower assessment.

