18

3.

Attempt should be made to identify and define the contents of jobs in terms
of competences including knowledge and skills not only at the point of
entry of an engineer in industry but at every subsequent point of his career
development. The quantum and quality of educational and training in
outs should be derived from such a study of contents of engineering jobs.

4.

A coordinated approa¢h should be made to the evolution of a skill generation system which will include technical institutions, training organizations
in industry and professional societies A variety of institutions and agencies
is involved in manpowep planning. Each of them should accept its reSl'on
sibility and the Government should encourage and promote manpower
planning at the micro-unit levels.
M

5.

Manpower assessment should be made on a continuing basis so as to pro·
vide for effective feedback to the technical education system.

(d) Continuing Education
1. Continuing educ,]tion should be accepted as an essential activity of the
technical education system and of the industry. The objectives of such education
should be (a) to enable betterment of qualifications of person~ employed in industry
and elsewhere (b) to promote horizontal and vertical occupational mobility (c) to improve the performance of an individual in his job.
2. It would be necessary to organise continuiug education courses in a number
of selected centres suitably located near industrial complexes.
3. There is no single form of continuing education to be provided. The nature,
level, and organization of continuing education depend upon the specific objective of
the industry and individual concerned.

4.- Language courses, extension lectures, management courses at different Jevels
preparatory courses should be offered in selected institutions and workers from industry
should be invited to join these courses, either in the evenings or on time release basis
The industry should be invited to join these courses designed to train their own men
to meet the changes of future technical advancement.
5. Continuing education should be formulated in close cooperation between
technical institutions, industry and universJties so as to provide alternative educational
courses to obtain higher technical educational qualifications, professional membership
for liberal education.

