19

6. This Seminar attaches great importance to the visit by every Faculty member of Polytechnics, Engineering Colleges and other technical institutions to nearby
industry as a part of continuing education and attainment of professional competence.
Having realised the importance of continuing education both for the teachers in the
technical institution and persons working in the industry, the seminar recommends that
a suitable scheme may be drawn up by the Government.
GROUP IV

MAl'wAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(a) A Study of the Managerial Manpower Requirements by Experts
Though on an earHer occasion a Committee went into the que~tion of
manpower requirements of the country, a profes<;ional study, both
comprehensive and intensive in scope, covering all the sectors-business and industry,
defence, public utilities, local self government and public administration -is nece')sary
to assess the needs for the 70s, Sufficient expertise is now available in the country to
undertake a study of this nature and magnitude.

man~gerial

Further, since this work is to be completed within a short period of a year or
so requiring full-time involvement of various categories of expert~ sufficient funds
should be pn~vided for such a study. Separate task forces and expert groups will have
to be set up to facilitate completion of the project in time.
Meanwhile action on the following lines be initiated.

cb) 1. Management Education
In addition to the pre-career education and training (full-time post-graduate
programs) it was felt there is need for expanding the facilities for continuing
education for practising managers by way of post-graduate part-time evening programs
and Executive development programs of shorter duration. It was, however, felt that
the current executive development programs need to have more educational content.
To these ends it was suggested that
further expansion of management oducation and training should be in the
Universities also. The design suggested here is of management school in universities
and institutes of technology with considerable freedom of operation within broad
framework of university policies. It is necessary that palicies regarding management
education should be adopted by universities/institutes of technology in consultation
with an advisory council composed of representatives of business and academics.
(i)

