20

(ii)

the universities should continue the evening programs.

without in any way affecting present commitments, it is recommended
that adequate additional allocations be made to provide for expansion and maintenance
of quality in management education. This additional allocation should be expanded
in institutions most likely to produce good results with the most economical utilization
of resources.
(it.-)

(iv) out of the universities now offering management programs a few be
selected as advanced centres for management education so as to facilitate their qualifying for grants on the same basis as other advanced centres.
(v) A few management subjects be introduced in the under-graduate curriculum
of degree courses in engineering, technology, and social sciences.
(vi) Where feasible required management content be introduced in engineering
curriculum to give the students necessary attitudes and skills to develop them for
entrepreneurship.

(b) 2. Faculty Development
One ot the major
Development'- both in the
number and quality. The
upon the existing situation

problems facing Management Education, Training and
institutes and universities-is the paucity of faculty both in
Seminar makes the following recommendations to improve
and to make faculty positions attractive:

(i)

extend the system of personal pay and special pay, as is now in vogue at
the Institutes of Management, to universities also in order to attract
executives from industry for teaching;

(ii)

improve T. A. and D. A. rules to enable faculty to undertake travel
extensively for academic work including case development;

(iii)

extend sabbatical leave provision to institutions where it is not provided
at present;

(iv)

liberalize recruitment policy by way of eliminating or reducing
such of those academic restrictions which have their basis in conventional
university standards but which are irrelevant to professional courses;

(v)

make recruitment procedures more flexible;

(vi)

J

liberalize consultancy rules so as to make it sufficiently attractive for
persons coming from industry with high income to take up teaching and
research;

