24
4.

Advanc~d summer school on 'Development and Design of Chemical
Proce~s Equipments' (May and June, 19:>9)

5.

Advanced summer school on 'Measurement Techniques in Mechanical
Engineering' (June, 1970)

6.

Seminar on 'Particle Technology' (Januar y, 1971)

7.

Advanced summer school on ' Process Equipment Design' (May, 1971)

8.

Advanced summer school
(June, 1971)

on

'Tribology

and Machine Dynamics'

The participants of these programmes have been paid travelling and other
al10wances and supplied with text books, instructional materials etc. from the funds
made available by J.S.T .E. For some of the programmes, experts from industry and
other eduGational and research institutions have been invited to deliver lectures on
sperified topics. U.S. consultants whose services were secured through the courtesy
of National Science Foundation and USAID, have been associated with some of the
programJ11es.
Members who satisfactorily completed the sequential summ~r schools were
cons dered for admission to the second year of our regular M.Tech. programmes.

Technical Teachers' Training Programme
During the period 1965-70, the Institute actively participated in the scheme
for training of technical teachers. The objective" of the training programmes were
acquis:tion of professional knowledge and experience, appreciation of the principles
underlying sound teaching methods and work leading towards a higher degree. Forty
one engineering college teachers were awarded degrees under this scheme.

Quality Improvement Programmes:
These programmes include the following for serving teachers :
(1)

Two year M. Tech. degree course

(2)

Doctoral programmes

(3)

Short-term in-service training.

Under this scheme, 13 teachers (10 from southern region, 1 from Jammu and
Kashmir and 2 from Madhya Pradesh) were admitted 1ast year to the M. Tech.
degree courses and six teachers for -the Ph D. programmes. It is proposed to admit
this year 20 teachers for M. Tech. and 10 for Ph.D. Judged from the number of
applications received, the response to this programme is very good.

