SOME MEMOIRS
C. V. KRISHNAN*

Pleasant are my memories of this Institute and the thousand odd days I spent
here.
Oh, how informal and jovial were some of my teachers! I vividly remember the
incident in my first year. The lecturer had just finished explaining Newton's law of
attraction sayiag that the reason for an object falling down on earth was the attracting
force between the object and the earth. One of my friends asked, "Sir, supppse you
hold a chalk piece in your hand, the force still exists b~tween the earth and the chalk ,.
the ehalk doesn't come down. That means the earth must go up, but why does not
that happen?" The teacher quipped, "Don't bother, my friend. People on the other
side of the earth will aho be holding chalks".
One sunny afternoon, all of us stayed away from a class. Clever as he was, the
next day, the lecturer came and said in an apologetic tone, "Sorry gentlemen, I couldn't come to class yesterday afternoon due to some urgent work".
Another lecturer was famous for his real bright jokes. I cannot resist the temptation of quoting one of his 'original' ones. A famous play-girl was asked, "Do you
accept gifts from perfect strangers 1"
"No" replied the girl, "I do not accept gifts from perject strangers.
who is perfect in this world 1"

But then,

In the midst of the periodicals, tutorials? laboratory records and the inevitable
viva voce, if an IITian had any bright and enjoyable moments, they were during the
inter·hostel competitions, cultural week, hostel day, the Institute day and above all,
the Saturday nights. To see Frank Sinatra chasing the 'Von Ryan's Express' or Peter
O'Toole 'Stealing a million dollars' in the Open Air Theatre were occasions which can
never fade out of memory. The pag€ant shows at O.A.T. during the Convocation,
though outdated and odd, were really a spectacle to watch.
Next to O.A T. comes the Gajendra Circle to my memory. Ironically enough,
the Gajendra Circle is surrounded by the administration block and the guest house, the
library and the Coca-Cola stand. Recently, a few 'speed breakers' around its neck
have been built as if to stop the fleeing elephants ..

* 1971

B.Tech. (Chemical).

