WHY FUNDAMENT_AL PARTICLES?
BY
Dr. P. ACHUTHAN*

In this article we would like to discuss briefly as to why work on the fundamental (elementary) particles is important and useful. While the subject is highly
technical and obviously involves extremely intricate mathematics and physics, it will be
the endeavour here just to elucidate certain basic features of this most challenging field
of scientific activity.
First of atl what is a Fundamental Particle? In popular language, 'Fundamental Particle' signifies the ultimate constituent out of which all matter' can be
considered to be made up. Actually the usefulness of the concept depends very much
on the state of knowledge at the time, the hierarchy of interactions with which one is
dealing and the order which is introduced into the description of the experimental
facts.
Grading from the galaxy down to the molecule, atom, nucleus and the subnu...
clear world, we have over two hundred fundamental particles now as against half a
dozen some thirty years ago. Their exact nature is not well understood. Since' the
advent of the theory of relativity and quantum mechanics, much work has been done
in the past few decades in explaining and interpreting the interactions-(fn the increasing order of strength) gravitational, weak, electromagnetic and strong-between these
particles, viz; graviton, photon, leptons (electron, neutrino, muon) and hadrons
(strongly interacting particles like the mesons, baryons and resonances). Both on the
theoretical as well as experimental fronts tremendous amount of effort is continued to
be put into such studies. Rather than entering into the question of detailed
calculations, we shall indicate now why and how the work on fundamentar particles
and their interactions is necessary for human progress.
From their very nature, being extremely small, almost transient and fast
moving any meaningful work on fundamental particles demands very high energies.
The discoveries in this field, which is in the frontier of science today, contributes most
to the advance of our deeper understanding of the structure of matter. Although
far beyond our daily experience (except possibly.'l when cosmic rays interact with
matter). this subje.:t has the highest and very direct intellectual appeal since it is the
most basic field of knowledge in the physical world.
Study of the fundamental particles is essential in order to discover the basic
principles which underlie the multitudes of all natural phenomena. Frequently the
+'-

Dept. of Mathemat·cs

