30
studies in particle physics have given unexpected insights into even the existjng ideas.
For instance, the investigation into the decay of K-mesons made it likely that parity is
not conserved always. This led Lee and Yang to their famous discovery about parity
violation in weak interactions. Recently it has been found that even the reversibility
of time may not be satisfied. Thus particle physics touches on the truely fundamental concepts of space and time.
One of the excellent features of a highly cultured human society lies in the

inner thir st to invent more and more--an expression of the noblest spirit of civilization,
the exploration of nature to all its limits. It can well be said that this spint is the
central motivation for a fuller understanding of the fundamental particles, the finest
building blocks of nature.
Lack of a unified theory to deal with the various particles and their interaction is currently the strongest challenge. Perhaps this itself is the chief cause for the
greatest charm in the subject. Viewing particles through various mathematical models
as moving poles of meromorphic functions, irreducible representations of groups,
proper combinations of fractionally charged quarks, partons, limiting fragmentations
and so OD, one can possilby approach the real and true. However, inspite of all the
efforts from several quarters for the past several years, the day when the particles will
fully be understood seems not to be in sight as yet. This readily indicates how imperative it is to direct greater attention for work in this area.
At the present time, work with the various medium and high energy accelerators in the United States of America, Russia, Federal Republic of Germany, England,
Switzerland, Italy and France show that there is really a great wealth of information
that should be expected from a detailed analysis of the empirical results obtained
from the varied experiments. Problems concerning the apparent order in the properties of the particles, the underlying basis of their interactions, the main relationship
between, the micro-and macro-levels clarifying their cosmological content and charact~r
of matter and many others still remain awaiting satisfactory solution. Meanwhile
more detailed mathematical and experimental study on these and other related questions
must be carried on.
Thus in the foregoing we have examined in rather qualitative terms the
relevance and need for a serious attempt to understand the ultimate constituents of
matter. It is to be hoped that the future efforts will surely nurture the knowledge of
nature especially through further inveStigations on the fundamental particles.

