FUN, NOVELTY AND PLEASURE
HA! HA! HA! HA!
K. S. HARIHARAN*

Here are some problems for you

1.

Five men and a monkey were shipwrecked on a desert island, and they
spent the first day gathering coconuts for food, piled them all up together and then
went to sleep for the nigbt.
When they were all asleep one man woke up, a~d he thought there might be a row
about dividing the coconuts in the morning. So he decided to take his share, by
dividing the coconuts ioto five piles. He had one coconut left over, which he gave to
the monkey, and he hid his pile and put the rest all back together. The next man
woke up and did the same thing. He had one left over, which he gave to the monkey,
And all five of them did the same thing, one after the other; each one taking a fifth of
the coconuts in the pile when he woke up, and each one having one left over for the
monkey. In the morning they divided what coconuts were left, and again one was
left over and that was als0 given to the monkey. To their surprise they found al.1 of
them have got equal shares totally. Of course each one must have known there were
coconuts missing; but each one was gUilty as the others, so they didn't say anythingc
But the problem is how many coconuts were there in the beginning? How is it
possible to have equal shares, if the coconuts were to be divided in this manner?
2. Sammy jumped on to one end of a piece of tree trunk lying on top of a hill.
The log was exact1y 13 feet long (unlucky for the boy), and the impact caused the log
f
to begin rolling downhill. As it rolled, Sammy managed to keep upright and slowly
walked across the log to the other end, which he reached just as the log came to rest at
the bottom of the hill, 84 feet from where it began to roll.
The log was 2 feet in diameter. How far did Sammy actually travel?
would he have travelled had the log been 3 feet in diameter?
3.

How far

Before and After

Here is a simple question with a YES or NO answer. It happens to be couched
in complex phraseology, but that shouldn't disturb you if you can find a way to reduce
it to the fundamentals. This can be done in three steps, leading to your rephrasing
the question in such simple tenns that the ansWer is immediately apparent.
Go ahead:
,. 1971 B.Tech. (Mechamcal).

