'fHE OPINIONS OF ONE WHO IS STILL LEARNING
V. S. KUMAR*

Sometime ago a few student friends wanted to know what I thought of student ..
teacher relationship and the present teaching methods. We had a lively discussion
resulting in certain conclusions which I promptly noted down on a piece of paper. This
piece of paper was gathering dust, when the editors of Pradeep, always starved for
matenal (I say this after some experien.:e), flattered me by snapping it up. So here
we go.
The student response depends on a whole set

0

f factors:

(a) The most important, of course, is the teacher's ability to gauge the
1)tudents' requirements and teach accordingly. He should not talk down to the students
but treat them as equals. The tutorials offer the best opportunity for the students and
the teachers to get to know one another as individuals. Less teaching and more discu~sion in these tutorials would improve matters to a great extent.
(b) No course should be text·book-or examination-oriented. Otherwise the
teacher merely interprets or misinterprets a set of books. 1 he students~ response in this
case is mechanical. They absorb only so much as will help them get good grades in the
examinations. In this system anything beyond the transfer of bookish knowledge via
the teacher to the student becomes a burden to both. A seminar/discussion-oriented
.course may take hours and hours. Still the burden will be light. Nobody will
.complain of overloading.

(c) A teacher who is brilliant where his specialisation is concerned is stiU not
.a teacher if he does not bother to know what his young charges are thinking, what
their aspirations are and what values they cherish. To know them he need not be like
them or like what they like. He can read of what they like and meet them half-way.
There is no fixed method of teaching It varies from subject to subject. One can always
tryout two or three methods and then adopt the one that evokes the maximum
response.
(c) The students are, I think, adults.

If they like what they were being given
If a student often absents him...
:self from a class it should not be taken personally by the teacher. The Important
thing is that the student should learn what he has been asked to learn. If he is able to
.do so by reading at home or in the library the teacher should be happy. Mere
.attendance in the cla~s is no indication that knowledge is being successfully transferred

in the class there won't be any problems of discipline.

• Dept. of Humanities.

