34
(e) Extra-curricular activities are the second side of the coin-education~
They should be given all encouragement. But if in the teacher's considered opinion, a
student is making his participation in these activities an excuse not to attend to the
equally important studi~s, the teacher has a duty to poiat this out to him. It is the
student's responsibility to convince the teacher that he is not neglecting either at the
expense of the other. An ideal teacher would be one, who without detriment to his
academic excellence, himself participates in extra-curricular activities. I think he will
then really earn the students' respect.

(0 Everyone, including the teacher, lacks som:!thing. Academic responsibilities and social grac~s cannot be and should not b~ taught. They can be improved only
by an inter-play of forces-a process of mutual learning. Between teacher and teacher
and between student a~d student and between teacher and student, this process is
always going on. What is required is understanding and not recrimination.
(g) Every teacher hankers after the respect of the students just as every

student wants good grades.
can earn them.

Neither can claim these as his right.

Only earnest work

I have said nothing new, I am afraid.
platitudes and you will be right.
if I do how far have I succeeded 1'.

You may even accuse me of resorting to'
The mighty question is, 'So I mean what I say and

Some of my colleagues with whom I di~cussej the matter agreed with me and
this prompts me to invite the Alumni to send in their opinions in the matter. I am sure
those who are pursuing higher studies abroad can offer a lot by way of suggestions
since they have the opportunity to compare two diverse systems.

"Those who wish to go to heaven", said the teacher, "should raise their

bands".
Everybody did so, except John.
"What, John, Don't you wish to go to heaven?", asked the surprised teacher.

"If" replied John, "the other 51 students are going to heaven, I would prefer
Hell".

