38

of some of my friends who went into ilidu~try recently for two m{)ntbs' traininl in
summer, I wou Id say that it is not aU that easy to apply manageme~t tools straightaway to real Ii fe prcblems. What I am trying to dri\le at is that when even students
who have been exposed to real problems in the classroom find it not too easy to
tackle actual problems, what would be the position of students who have been used to
more or less only theory in the Engineering field?
Well, having made this criticism about 1. 1. T., Madras. I am fully aware
that it is not in the least as difficult to criticise a~ to make a concrete suggestion. still, I
venture to make a couple of suggestions. First of all, the teachers should spend more
time in the classrooms in discussing applications in Industry of the theory that is taught.
Secondly, the problem~ of various industries in India may be discussed wherever they
are relevant. The problems which the students are asked to solve may be framed in
such a manner as to involve actual problems in industry.
These, I trust,
will at least evoke an iota of interest in the students to go out of their way to read"
up practical applications.

I have also one or two comments to make about the course content.
that in some cases the same portion of a syllabus was being repeated in more
course. This is obviously a waste of time for the teachers as well as the
Thi6 I sU'ppose can be remedied by better coordination during the period of
up the syllabus for the various courses.

I found
than one
students.
drawing

Reg~rdiog the project courses and electives, I feel that more time must be
allowed for the students. This may be achieved to a certain extent by Jetting the
students choose their electIves right from the fourth year onwards. This will help the
students to concentrate more 00 the subjects of their own interest, by dropping those
subjects which may not be relevant to the line which they want to pursue.

Next, I would like to comment a little on the evaluation of laboratory
reports and tutorials. Students used to say in a joking fasbion that the grades for
!hese reports were directly proportional to the number of colour pencils used in
preparing them! I regret to say that this was a rather serious joke; for, I found it to
be true in most of the cases. As a consequence those students whose reports were of
good quality except for the lack of coloured lines and decorations were penalized. And
those, who decorated their reports. spent so much time in doing so that they hardly
had any time or inclination for some constructive work such as extra reading. This
whole phenomenon is a sheer waste of valuable time and a souree of frustration to
many students. It would be of great use if all the teachers concerned make it quite
clear to the students that decorations carry no weightage and also practise what they
say_
I would be very glad if the esteemed faculty of I. I. T.; Madras find the few
comments that I have put down, worthy of their consideration.

