45
If )OU start )our dlagram nem the staHments in 3 and 4, )ou'll draw 1\\0lines of undetermined length, one north and south, the other east and west, with
MONSK at their intersection. 1 hen Ml1\SK is belo\y, UM~K is above, and OMSK
is to the left (west) with MUNSK to the right (east).
Statements 5 and 6 locate AMSK and MANSK and provide a scale of miles to
work "'itb, while Statements 1 and 2 reveal that you are dealing with the equal
diagonals of perfect squares, ",hicb have a common corner at MONSK.
Your diagram "'ill further ~lo\\ that the sqt1ares are at rirht angles to each
other, with a 6 mile side of one perpendIcular to an 8 mile side of the other. Hencethe required distances can be easily found.

5. Hear Ye! Hear Ye!
1.

They are not pleased (see below)

2. The Court of Appeals must now hear the appeal.
Explanation of Steps in SolvIng:

a. (Starting from the end) Evidently the Ccmptrol1er General rtfused to audit
a claim of the Sanka 5teel Corporation against the United States.
b. The Sted Corporation then obtained an injtmction in the District Court
(D. C.) which had the dIfCt of fOJc1I1g him to audit this claim.

c.

The Comptrol1er General appealed frem this decision to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia.
d. This Court, Pending a hearing of this appeaJ, granted the Comptroller
General a stay of the order of the lower (DIstrict) Court. That is, it told him he
needn't audIt the claim for the t1me being. (The Steel Corporation then asked the
same Court to vacate tbe stay - a fact which is not wntten, but implied, sinc~)

e. The Court of Appeals denied this motion.
applied to the U. S. Supreme Court, and)

(The Steel Corporation then

f.

The Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari to review the above action
of the Court of Appeals. (This, of course, pleased the Steel Corporation.)

g. (Later, however) The Supreme Court vacated its own writ of certiorari
(as improvidently granted). In other words, it decided that the Comptroller General
w()uldn't have to audit tbe claim until after his appeal was heard, if at all. (This.
dispieased the Steel Corporation)

