48
()ver a Cup of Aye Aye Tea
If you ever get around to writing' The Decline and Fall of lIT, Madras/ YOll
-could do an entire chapter on this annual gaJa. I don't know what the three-day
binge is in aid of. One very original thinker has claimed that new talent finds
inspiration there. If the inter-bostel affair js any measure of IITian talents, it's
time for sack-cloth and ashes. The only thing that it does is force our Social
secretaries into some action and produce an ultra-dull thirty-five minutes of 'entertainment '. Every hostel finally ends with some sickening skIt and even more sickenmg
"' bhaila'. The idea of creativeness is to put up a Tamil-English skit or light a fire
-on stage.
<Caricature
When Mutts first joined lIT. he had short hair-no sideburns-a quiet mannerin fact, the very qualities of a perfect 'chickaa'. Then the seniors started getting fresb,
.and that spoilt his concentration in studies. He couldn't beat them, so he just plain
joined them. He sprouted hair, grew muscles, got the 01' mean and hungry look,
started boxing and soon made quite a name for himself. The strong and silent type.
That was Mutts alright!

February, 1971
Personalities
F{)r all the unfortunate masses who have yet to meet Mr. Balaraman, he is the
.:grand, rolypo)y, smiling Assistant Prof. from the Aero Dept., whose shirts can provide
shelter for an entIre pygmy tribe. Apparently, he was pretty lean till he was eight,
when he had a bout of typhoid, after which he blew up like a hot-air balloon. 'I was
-called "Fatso" in school and, man, it hurt. The first three days I went back and
-cried but then I realized it wasn't much good' he said. So he decided to participate
in every sport that he came across, and wound up doing the 100 m. in 22 sees. flat.
But he would finish. I I guess that's what helped me in life' he mused later. ' You
-could call me self-made.'
Letter to the Editor
Campastimes will die a natural death common to many magazines unless it
-shakes off its old-fashioned ideals set ten years back and raises itself from the rut.
It is not too late and death·bed repentance is no good. Let us not waste any more
time. waiting for the auspicious moment to engage in some stock-taking.

Letter from I. I. T., Kbaragpur
Colourful, grand, spectacular or just plain preliminary to other matters on
lland, the opening ceremony is like a childhood disease-inescapable. Four tense

