49

days followed which were a culmination of hopes, speculations, and efforts. Winning
or losing, each day held its own trials and tribulations. Till the last trophy was given
away, there was a battle to be fought. Not till then was the Meet over and the
championship lost, a tradition shed away and the bitter outcome to be faced. The
·days in between were pleasant and enhanced by our privileged status as guests. The
food, though a fertile topic of conversation, was not of the kind to provoke violent.
reactions. Being typical of its location, it probably came as a nasty surprise to a few-

Summer, 1971
Literary and Cultural week
The annual festive gala of lIT, Madras, got under way with hectic last minute
efforts by all involved. It lasted for six days, from 22nd February through 28th
providing entertainment for the great unwashed, and disappointment for the elite
The rock and soul music from the Leo Ramble was the highlight of the week, with
the literary and cultural talents of the collegiate crowd of Madras running a close
second. Audience participation was more limited this year than the last. The
secretaries did the job for them.
Over a cup of Aye Aye Tea
My sympathy lies with the judges who had to actually keep looking at the
proceedings. Thanks must go to the Leo club for the significant noise reduction at
the OAT. The noise-makers were all at the Canteen.
Caricature
Rajaram insists on attending all lecture classes which have humour.
rrecollects that long ago one gentleman said,
, Sin- 1 x = _._1- = Cos x.'
Sin x
Raja did not miss any of the other classes taken by this gentleman.

He still

He did benefit.

The gentleman informed the class, 'You see, in the term A Sd~, dx being small, can
be neglected.'
Personalities
Mr. Ebert isn't Betrielbsleiter for nothing ... If you asked him about his love
life (I didn't), his wife would probably come out a close second-to machines! After
four years in a place like this, talking to a nlan who is really interested in his job is
fantastic. After hours, he reads about aircraft, unlike us morons resorting to spicier
literature. You can see the gleam in his eye when he speaks about a gear cutting
machine or a universal milling machine, and you know the workshop is in capable
hands. Unfortunately, as it turns out with our beautiful bureaucracy, the hands
.aren't exactly free.

