GENERAL SECRETARY'S REPORT

OR
THE YEAR THAT WAS •..•
*Presented on the Institute Twelfth Annual Day, March 20th, 1971.
Dr. Reddy, Mrs. Reddy, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The main aim of the Gymkhana has been to promote extra-curricular activities
and ensure a fuller and more whole-hearted participation in all fields of activity, and
I am glad to say that this purpose had been fulfiIIed in a large measure.
The Gymkhana was inaugurated in the tradhional manner on August 20th last
year. During that function, I had occasion to promise the Director, that we would
maintain our reputation as the 'Best Host lIT' for the ItT Meet that was conducted in
our Institute during the last week of December. But at that time, even the thought of
winning the coveted General Championship Trophy was considered preposterous.
Wen, miracles do happen and lIT., Madras won comfortably, beating her nearest rival.
lIT., Kanpur by 28 points. This achievement was made possible only by patient
practice, perseverance and the determination to win. Our teams triumphed in AthleticS
Hockey, Basketball, Tennis and Shuttle Badminton, but were unlucky in Volleyball
and Football. The Inter-IIT Meet, not only brought out briIl1ant talent on the Sports
fields , but also in the field of Organization. Both students and the staff contributed
their mite to the Organization and smooth conduct of the Meet. If nothing else, the
Meet was an object lesson in cooperative effort and singleness of purpose.
As a means of preparation for the Inter-IIT Me~t our Sportsmen participated in
the Inter·CoIIegiate tournaments but met with indifferent success. In the Bertram;
Tournament, however, we won the Chess Championship, and Lionel Paul repeated his
earlier success by winning the Tennis Singles title. Our Shuttle Badminton team WOll
both the singles and doubles championships at the Shuttle Badminton Tournament,
held in Madurai. Our sportsmen did very creditably in the Buck Memorial Tourna ..
ments by winning the Hockey, Athletics and Ball Badminton championships. This
year, there was keen competition for the 'Schroeter Cup' which symbolises the over-all
supremacy in sports. Ganga Hostel were the well deserving winners of this trophy. A
new trophy for Inter-departmental CrIcket was instituted this year by the FInal Year
B. Techs. This has been won by the Metallurgy Dept.
Let it not be thought that this year was dominated by Sports alone. There was
remarkably good participation in the Literary field as welL A large number of
enthusiasts took part in the Annua~ Debate and Quiz. The Open Group dIScussion,
which is a contest peculiar to our Institute, also attracted large participation ras did the
English Essay writing competition and the written G~neral Knowledge test.

