51
To provide a means of stimulating interest in the field of management, a business Sciences Study Circle was started as a new venture in addition to the already
flourishing Debating Society. The Study Circle has arr~nged several lectures by prominent businessmen and administrators.
A new feature in the literary activities of this year was the conduct of the Inter-

lIT Debate, Quiz and Group Discussion. The performances were commendable and the
overwhelming response from all IITians makes a strong case for the continuation of
these comp~titions at the Inter-IIT level.
The literary competitions held during the Cultural Week were noteworthy for
the large number of contesting Colleges in the All India Debate as well as in the InterCollegiate Quiz and Group DiSCUSSIon, and also for the high standard of the competitors. The enthusiastic turnout by the audi~nce high-lights the pressing need for an
indoor auditorium with a larger seating capacity than the C.L.T.
IlTians have excelled as usual in the various literary competitions held in and
around Madras City. Our debators won trophies at the Inter-Collegiate debates held
by Lions Club, the UN Students association of Madras, Loyola College and in tbe
M.I.T. Cultural Week. Our Quiz brains bagged the trophies at the Quiz competitions
held by M.M.C. and M.I T.
.
On the basis of the tremendous interest shown in the various literary activities,
it has been proposed to install a Inter-Hostel trophy for the best hostel in literary
activities on the lines of the 'Schroeter Cup~ for games.
The Fine Arts Committee has been more active this year than in any previous
year. An Art Club was formed, which has been providing its members with valuable
instructions in the various techniques of painting. In addition a Sculpture Club has
also come into being and has been functioning successfully, especially during the InterlIT Meet, when its members turned out scrap iron models, examples of which can be
seen at the Gajendra Circle and near the stadium. The Photography Club has helped
to create a genuine interest in the art of photography. Members are provided with the
use of a dark room, and are also given film and paper at a concessional rate. During
the Cultural We~k, it came as no great surprise when our students bagged most of the
prizes in photography.
In an effort to help amateur painters appreciate the finer points of good painting, an art appreciation gathering was held in October. This was the first of its kind
in Madras. Eminent artists were invited to discuss paintings with students from all
over the city. The unprecedented success of this gathering sparked off a second art
appreciation gathering which was as successful as the first. It is hoped that these

