52

gatherings will become a regular feature at our Institute. The growing in terest in art
was made evident by the multitude of paintings that were exhibited during the Cultural
Week. The Science Fair also attracted many entries from outside colleges, though the
fie1d was dominated by IITians.
Early this year, a challenge was thrown to the Entertainmen t Committee to
improve the standard of entertainment in our Institute, and they picked up the gauntlet
by arranging a very successfull Entertainment Programme at the Inaugura1 function. The
still-born dramatic& Club was reborn this year and turned out to be a healthy wailing
brat. The club was inagurated with the staging of the play' A pound on Demand'. A
second play 'The Physicist' soon followed, and proved that IITians also are capable of
good acting and can appreciate seriolls plays.
The Inter-Hostel Entertainment Competition held in October was a keenly
contested affair. and the Hoste1s demonstrated their patriotic spirits in no uncertain
manner.- After three days of Music and Song, the Engineering Unit Trophy was
awarded to Ganga hostel. Sarayu was the dark horse and sneaked away with the
second place.
Participation seems to have been the key word this year. A maximum of four ..
teen colleges took part in the Cultural Week entertainment competition. The audience this year has been more appreciative and even tolerant ane). the success of the
cultural week celebrations can largely be attributed to them.
In the field of entertainment, lIT-Madras won the Best Skit price at the InterCollegiate dramatics competition held at Guindy Engineering College. We dominated
the scene at the MIT Cultural Week also, winning a great many prizes. Our students
were invited to stage a Variety Entertainment-programme which was broadcast over
All India Radio.
The Institute Day marks the culminatation of the year's activities of the
Gymkhana. Looking back at the year, I think I can confidently say, that it has been a
year or intense activity and achieVement, a year which will long he remembered by
IITians. All this was possible only because both the staff and the students worked
together, with the will to achieve. I have no doubt, that in the coming years IIT will
go on to newer achievements and greater successes.
In a few weeks, many of us final year students will be leaving this Institute,.
perhaps never to return again. On behalf of all of them and on behalf of the Secre..
taries, I thank you all for everything you have done for us, and assure you that wherever we are we will follow the progress of lIT., Madras with great interest and we
shall always be proud of belonging to this great Institution.

*

'*

