RAM RAJYA
By: T. S.

Ananthu>:~

I am f:etting quite tired of cynics in OUf midst who keep repeating that we are
living in Kaliyug, that society is not what it should be, that we are far removed from
the idealistic vision of equality, justice, fairplay and humanism for all; in short, that
we have failed to establish the Ram Rajya of our dreams, the Ram Rajya that we
aimed for when we attained independence.

Take a look around yourself carefully, and you will be convinced, as I have
been, that we have indeed succeeded in establishing Ram Rajya and are, belie.ve it or
not, living in such a Rajya. After all, how do you define "Ram Rajya"?-A regime
that is governed by the principles expounded by Ram, where Ram is the supreme ruler,
where everything is in Ram's power. This is very much the case today. Our
Government is, in fact, entirely in the hands of Ram, and there are three such types
of Rams-Aya Ram, Gaya Ram and Jaya Ram.
I am not joking. I am being very serious. Before making this attempt to
convince you of the existence of Ram Rajya in our midst, I had made efforts to
convince myself thoroughly. Living in Delhi as I do, I probably had less difficulty in
doing so than my fellow HTians in other parts of the country and' the world.
To accomplish my purpose, I paid visits to each of the Rams' bungalows here in
Delhi.

Aya Ram was extremely logical.
"Who says the living standard of the average man has not gone up since
independence?" he thundered, "Take, for example, my own case ... "
A glance at the carpets, the chandeliers and the wall papering in the drawing
room was enough to convince me of the powerfulness of his argument.
"And when my standard of living has gone up", Aya Ram continued bis
irrefutable logic," so has everyone else's; for, after all, we are living in a socialistic
age, and so everyone in the society progresses at the same rate. We have discarded the
decandent capitalistic system, where some can be rich and others poor. My party has
irrevocably adopted the principles of Ram Rajya, it stands for socialism, for
democracy, for eradication of poverty, for upliftment of the masses, for making all
men equal".
"'Batch of '65 (accelerated to '64!)

