54

"But", I intervened,
principles" .

"the opposition party

also

swears by the some

"They are hypocrites", his voice soared beyond what some define as the
'hysterical pitch' at the velY mention of his sworn enemies, "They say one thing, and
do quite the opposite. They preach secularism, but form alliances with communal
forces. They advocate the use of Indian languages, but send their own children to
English medIum schools. They talk of simpl~ living and high thinking, but indulge in
high living and simple thin king."
While we were thus engrossed, preparations for a cocktail party in the adjoining
room were in full swing. With his "I insist", Aya Ram overpersuaded me to join in
the evening's gathering.
Now, I have to admit that in spite of over four years' stay abroad and
persistent attempts to get "used" to drinks, all liquor is still very much like cod liver
oil to me. The net result was that I had to put off my planned visit to Gaya Ram
that night.
The ~next morning, after overpowering the initial spell of laziness -cumdrowsiness, I rang up Telephone Enquiries to find out the number and address of Gaya
Ram. Imagine my surprise, when I was supplied with exactly the same address that I
had been to .the previous day!
"But then", I reasoned with myself, "it is only appropriate that in Ram Rajya
leaders of opposing parties should reside in the same premises"
However, as I discovered when I reached there, not only was the address the
same, the personalities were identical too.
"So", I told the former Aya Ram, "you have defected to the opposition,
is it 1"
"No, no, no", protested Gaya Ram, "don't caB it defection. It is merely
following the dictates of one's conscience. At the party last night-the one from which
you departed rather early-leaders of the opposition convinced me that my principles
really coincided with theirs. And now I will tell you a secret. All along, my
principles, my views and my ideology have really been more identical with that of the
opposition. To tell you the truth, this had been weighing heavily on my conscience
for a very long time, and last night I finally decided to bow to the will of my
conscience" .
"But", I remarked, "only last night you were bitterly denouncing the
opposi tion" .

