55
"You see, my friend", Gaya Ram explained ruefully, putting a delicate,
perfumed hand over my shoulder," I regard duty as ab,ove everything else, and I was
merely performing my duty as a loyal member of the party to which I belonged at
that moment. My real views I concealed, and you can't imagine what a sacrifice
and mental torture was involved in that. .. "
He almost broke down and wept at this stage; there could be no doubting his
sincerity, his genuineness, his deep dedication first to his duty and later on to his
conscience.
My enCollflter with Jaya Ram was quite dramatic. I spotted him getting out
(with quite some difficulty) of his limousine, and reverentially greeted him ~ with a
"Ram Ram Ji". And that gave him the opportunity he was looking for in order to
make a speech:
"I know it is a tradition in this country to greet others in the name of Lord
Ram, as if he is the greatest one that ever lived. But don't forget that the Ram Rajya
that we are establishing today is, in several ways, far superior to the Ram Rajya that
existed in Lord Rama's time. Ft)r example, Lord Rama certainly did not do as much
as he should haTe for the Harijans. Why, he didn't even have a Harijan as his most
important Cabinet Minister. If only he had made the leader of the Harijans a
Cabinet Minister as well as leader of the ruling party, all Harijans would' have been
automatically emancipated. Nothing more needs to be done for Harijans beyond
that. This is exactly what we have done today. Of course, I don't say we couldn't
perform better, we could, for example, make the leader of the Harijans our President.
And, more important, we should have a law forbidding any public hue and cry about
the forgetfulness of Ministers, e$pecially if they are also leaders of the Harijans. Oh,
I forgot in Lord Rama's time, see how miserably women were trt:ated. Slta sacrificed
all she had for her husband's sake, and still her husband got all the credit. How
unfair! But in our Rajya, it is the women who get all the credit and advantage
unfairly! A lady is given the honour of presiding over the Cabinet-mind you, even
preSIding over the leader of the Harijans - just because she happens to be the daughter
of her father. Can Lord Rama boast of such a place of honour for women in his
time ?"
"Then, Sir", I began, not without a touch of fear at interrupting the speech of
the Almighty, "would it be more appropriate to refer to our era as Sita Rajya ?"
He glared, and then gave me a scornful look.

*

