58
On a late evening, after supper, when we were sitting on the lawns of Gajendra
Circle, engrossed in our favourite tOPIC, we were disturbed by the following conversation from behmd one of the elephants on the other side,
"Our teachers don't know a thing. Why - not many of them could teach
anywhere else and get away with it. There ought to be a whole new teaching staff.. .'~
The other guy reacted quickly to this: "Yeah, Yeah! I too failed in two
subjects."

My friend told me "See, the future is going to depend not so much on what
happens In outer space as on what happens In inner space - the space between our ears.
1 had to agree with him. I saId ,. Don't we see that whenever science makes a
discovery, the deVil grabs it while the angels are debatmg the best way to use it? But
does that stop the progress of research ? Wby - only a few years ago the moon wa:i
an inspiratIon to lovers and poets. A few years from now, it will be just another
airport 7'.
On that day it was past twelve 0' clock when I returned home from Gajendra
Circle. In spIte of my tiredness, I could not sleep. Of course it is no small art to
sleep; to achieve it one must keep awake all day.

*
My friend - the Chemical Engineer - was on vacation. He was llOL one of
those who take their holidays late in the season to avoid the rush of people taking
their holidays early in the season to avoid the rush. He was really worried about
the way in which thmgs happened in the world to-day. I used to agree with his statement that money saved for a ramy day buys a much smaller umbrelJa than it used to.
But what on earth could he do while he himself was to suffer from rheumatism?
We went to see the doctor. The doctor wrote a pJescription and as we were getting
out of his room said to my fnend, " Let me know if that does you any good. I have
been troubled myself with rheumatism lately".
When we come out I asked my friend with a grin" Well, what do you say?
Where do we go? "
He was agitated. " To hell with science and technology! I do
not think we will be able to make a mark even in medicine. We go nowhere, sure~
take it from me ".

I took the bottle from his hand. "I was not discussing philosophy now. I only
asked you where do we go now - home or Knick Knack? ".

