Vol. X, No. II

,EDITORIAL

HOW LAWFUL IS THE LAW
• The law IS an ass' said a prophetic
cntlc of the great English legal tradition. He
scarcely knew how profound he was. Law
takes many many forms and most of them
tend to make the world move towards greater
order (decreasmg entropy, U you want to be
nasty). The law that makes vehicles go on
the left side of the road IS basIcally sound
because It leads to lesser accidents. BUT
ALL LAWS ARE NOT LIKE THE
RULES OF THE ROAD QUIte a few of them
are created by establtshed people and are
alffied at expltcltly those less fonunate. We
must see how lawful these are.
The bramwashmg m the name of laW-SOCial
and conventional la\,,-beglfls at school. If
you are fortunate enough to be of profitable
pedigree, you can enter the ponals of the
Gods (hterally smce most of them are run by
men of God). Then the Law of the land IS
turned on. Before you canojlay • Lor Luv my
mont tor " you are told that your parents are
fools and your religion IS pnrmtlve. But after
school hours IS the la.... of the home pullmg
In the opposite dUectlon t~lmg you that goodness IS obedience and God made the sum of
the angles of a triangle equal to two rIght
angles. You tumble on findmg happiness In
your small excurSlOns mto anarchy. You
grow up.
Suddenly one day you start wondering why
m heaven's name there are so many dos and
donts. You go to a movie and see the man of
boundless lawlessness glotlfied. You read
Shaw and Huxley and they tell you that
m hberty man becomes superman. You
lIsten to Woodstock and thnll at the sound of
Freedom.
When you go back to that
mundane world, you firld thmgs qUlte

Our Regular Features
e(;iforial
I
{)f chings
8
j)efe~s C:or'ler
12
From J(ere (11[(; :Jhere
13
ever fi Cup () f fiye f/ge
Jrea
15
Sporljolio
11
Square 'p(lnce
18
Chess
'1
Bridge
18

liT Madras, Winter 1971
different. You fade away or protest dependmg
on your Invoh'ement.
The amount of law IS an ordinary day IS
somethmg astomshmg The argument often
used for such 'Jegahty' IS that unless there
IS order, normal ltfe would break down. But
how much order IS there Ifl the educational
system today? Very often m the legal
name of currIculum nght from school we
study unnecessary thIngs taught umntelhglbly
by unenterp[1smg men domg It on an underpaid assIgnment. The result we are broken
up mto geometnc shapes that need not even
be handled With care. Somettmes we wonder
what has gone wrong where but hardly ever
reahse- that what IS wrong IS that we haven't
bothered to Sit up and ask those questtons that
differentiate men from cattle.
The most frustratmg thing is that there
seems to be some law to support every form
of explOitatIOn, repressIOn and corruption.
When Yahya Khan sends hIS hordes mto
BangIa Desh he pomts a legal finger at the
clauses demandtng non-mterference in the
mternal affairs of a nation as enshnned In the
U.N. Charter. When the clerk Ifl a Government office tells you that your scholarship
amount may be collected m 23 days he pomts
a legal finger at all the blood-stam hke
smudges that are supposed to mean that the
whole department has approved of your gettmg the scholarshIp; and when students With
mera demand admiSSIOn loto the portals of
the elite-SOCIety, their only fault belflg that
they don't have the goods m sackfuls, they
are faced With the legal finger which shows
them that It is the Indian COustitutlOn that is
to be blamed.
All of which leads to the Vital questIon:
Can there be a stngle human law? There
could be but the search IS gomg to be long.
AIl the forces of pnvtlege, prejUdice and
pOSition ate gOing to oppose It. Any such
law should come, I feel, from the students.
We are the people who feel about the problems of lIfe Without pre-conceived nottons.
The atmosphere of questJoIllng that surrounds all the phYSical sCienCes can break the
monopoly of unreason that exists now.
The students need a charter of action.
This cannot be the Idle cry of rhetOriC that
pleases, satiates but never fills. It has to be
aimed at all the forces of exploitatIOn and
cannot isolate itself to Issues of smaller
dlffienSlons alone. Because It is often the
experience of student radicalIsm that your
apparent enemy IS your fnend, philosopher
and gUide tn greater Issues.
I wonder how many of you have come
across the Berkeley constitutIon Issued by the
students of Berkeley. It contaInS qUlte a few
things not pertment to our conditions but
has several interestmg clauses.
They said 'We wJll defend ourselves against law and
order; the law makers faced With the erosion
of their authonty In Berkeley begm to take
on the grotesque quahues of a dictatorship
based on pure pohce power.
The baSIC issue IS creating an educational
system In whIch student have real power
and which prepares the young to participate
In a revolutionary world.
We W1U elcmlnate

30 P.
the bramVtashmg, fingernail cuttmg mass
production of cogs for Amcrica's old age
home War mal'hme.'
We must deVise a constitution of our own.
It should tackle problems of far-reaching Importance. It may upset many thmgs; but
most crucial of aU, It should upset the workmg of people's mmds. The charter, should
fall In hne with great reforms like the
Women's Liberation which are strugghng to
bnng about a more humane law. Nothing 10
the world IS Isolated. ' There are more thmgs
in heaven and in earth, HoratiO, than are
dreamt of III your philosophy' said HaInlet.
lIe might have been taIkmg to US.

All of you know that the Convocation
was duly covered tn our columns by one of
the students. Now, to say the least, he did
not have anythmg comphmentary to say
about it. QUite a few eyebrows were raised.
We would not have bothered too mIJch about
these but that the raised eyebrows belonged
to people who had the mterest of the
students, the mstttution and the magazine
very much at heart. So I thought It would
not be out of place If I made a cianficatlOn.
OpInions expressed m these columns except
in the Edltonal which represents a poltcyare personal opInIOns and suffer from all
the shortcoffilngs that personal OpInions do.
Students and members of the staff are welcome to agree whole heartedly or dlsagree
strongly With them and they may be sure
that their views however unpalatable wIll be
duly pubhshed. It IS needless to say that
the remarks made about the speeches made
by the Chief Guest and Mr. Iyengar were
an opinion and not a poltey. That these
two are sClflttilating m pnvate conversauon
and love students mayor may not be known
to the student who wrote on the functIOn.
But as Punch remarked 'An Opllll0n 18 an
opmlon IS an opmion.'

•

•

Those mtervlews have set everybody talking , which made me very happy smce an
Editor's Wish IS always that the matter is
read before critiCised or praised. But an
unpleasant off-shoot was that a few began
to say that Campast!mtJs did not beheve In
the Gymkhana and was betng very sceptical
about the whole affair. THIS IS VERY
WRONG. It IS ImpOSSIble for Campastimes
not to beheve In the Gymkhana for the
simple reason Campasttmes IS a part of the
Gymkhana. Its editor IS a member of the
Steenng Committee. When we expressed
doubts about the Gymkhana being able to
pull m the same dlrectlon, we were bemg
crItIcal but were Constructive. That the
Gymkhana and the Steermg Committee have
met more often and more purposefully thiS
Seme<;ter than ever before are facts whIch
gladden our hearts, and which we are Conceited enough to feel shows that our cntlClsm
has not fallen on deaf ears.
There IS a feelmg among the office-bearers
that they could do so much more If they
were able to talk directly to the students.
So I have deCided to mtroduce a new regular
ftature 'GYMKHANA' where they WIll
talk to you straight. I hope this wIll be
c()ntmued In the years to come.

