PROF—FILE

In this issue the spot-light is on Prof. R. RADHAKRISHNAN.
Contour editors Joju and Dinesh had a chat with him on
9th
September (incidentally his birthday) and discussed various
matters of interest to all of is.
we present here some facts
about Prof. th and his views on a wide range of topics.
Prof. Rﬂk was born in Thanjavur District.
His father,
who is a retired school teacher, had his services complete‘ y in
Trichy district.
Hence all his schooling was done in the same
district.
For his school, the so called SSLC on those days, he
had to walk 5 miles up and down daily to a place known as Lalgudi.
after completing the sscc with the Second rank in the school he
moved to National College, Tiruchi for his intermediate examination
which he passed in 1950 by getting four distinctions out of the
five subjects.
Then he joined the College of Engineering,
Kakinada in the then composite Aadras State.
He had some problem
of health during the course but the determination and the
encouragement from many of his friends and relatives enabled him
to complete the course in 1956.
Then he joined the Engineering
College,Guindy as Asst. Lecturer in Civil Engineering and
continued there till 1958 when he joined the graduate Programme
in Structural Engineering which he completed in 1959.
He
continued again in the same college till 1961 when he joined
T. Madras when it was located in the CLRI buildings.
It must
beIEmentioned here that Prof. RRk was tooper (with record marks in
t.) both at kakinada and at the College of Engineering, Guindy
In the Structures division, he is one of our senior most professors.
Just to have a change from the beaten track, Prof. RRL chose the
newly emerging field of structural Dynamics by attending a
specialist course in the University of hourkee where there is a
full fledged department of Earthquake Engineering.
Later in 1967
he went to PBS to continue the specialisation in the same field
and returned 1969 after doing some theoretical work and part of
the experimental work in the Technical University at Braunschwqig.
He completed his Ph. D. Thesis by Pursuir
some more experimental
work at the then newly constructed Structural Engineering Laboratory.

H;§ views 35 Students going abroad
He is not at all against students going abroad for advanced
studies but wants them to come back and serve the country.
feeling of patriotism is absent or negligible among the students of
today and this feeling must be inculcated right from one's childhood.
The man cause of the problem is the present state of our
educational System.
About 9; Courses
The courses and the methods of teaching at I.I.T.,Madras
are of a very high standard.
More importance must be given to
design oriented subjects and drawings.

