Whom to blame for this sorry state of our development
plans?

Public sector managers argue that fault doesn't

lie with the project but with the
as a case in point.

'system'.

Funding is cited

The approval of planning commission

is not considered an investment approval from the government.
Further, the funding is in the form of a year to year allocation.
So they are unable to arrive at a long term planning.

Project

managers are thus helpless, runs the argument.
Another argument advanced is that delays are inevitable
due to the complicated system formulated by the government
for the clearance of the project.

It involves a plethora of

appraising agencies, which examine the project from various
angles.

Then only Public Investment Board (P.I.B.) give the

final clearance.

But not even a single proposal has been

modified drastically while being cleared by these agencies.
50 it is nbvious that all these exercies are just a waste of
time.

The example of Gandhamardhan bauxite project will make

it clear.

The proposal was cleared by the union forestry

ministry, but stalled by environmental department - The case
is curious, because it was the same secretary who acted on
behalf of both

the departmen+s.

But there is a glimmer of hope.

The dismal state of

project implementation has forced the present administration
to create the one-of-its-kind ministry of programme implementation.

The role of this ministry has been stated by its

first minister in—charge, Nm. Ghani Khan Choudhury like thiy
'The programme implementation ministry plays a catalytic role
by monitoring various projects, identifying the slippages and
keeping the concerned ministries and the government at the
highest level informed so that necessary action can be taken
by the concerned ministries and later this action is followed
up‘.
We can see that this new initiative is the oasis in the
desert, which give us a hope of a well planned, well developed
tmnorrow.
(Main source: Business World, March '87)

(6)

