UMG '84 is on a more personal basis •• "

CAMPASTIMES talks to KARTHIK RAJARAM, the Lit. Sec., about MG84 •••
KR: The main idea is to get more life tnto it. The informal games
this year have a lot of more innovative ideas and promise to be
some of the most interesting ones. And a new feature is the pool
games - held at the swimming pool. You don't even have to know how
to swim. Rubber tubes and things like that around •••
Another prominent feature is the video tapes. This year we
heve 3 monitors and the video shows go into the smaller hours of the
night.
CT: But why i£n't there much of internal publicity for this?
KR: The thing ls, if you prDmlse the guys a lot. they'll come here
expecting the moon and the sun put together, and if they don't find
i t so, they'll say it's all bull. So, we just say these are around
and leave it there.
CT: Wh2t about the general publicity?
KR: 1500 posters have been printed just for saying that MG'84
is from 24th to 29th only. Besides that the posters for Chaurasia.
CT: It is rather surprising to see that the Chaurasia event is
ticke ted, though one was led all along into believing he could
just walk into OAT •••
KR: \ve' ve looked at it this "Jay: Of the huge cro\\1d 9 only 6000 or
so will even know something about music at all. Others would come
for less intellectual purposes. So, by ticketing, we feel that 1·'e
should be able to weed out the lesser motivated groups.
CT: But what about the money?
KR: The 10,000 Rs. for this sho\·/ is only secondary. Chaurasia is
one of the most prominent flute players in the country, and it will
be difficult to stave off more than capacity crowd if there \~1aS no
entry fee.
CT: How is the volunteer scene this time?
KR: "Decentralized" is the \'lord. The event coordin~tdlrs have to
pick their own volunteers, and see to it that they get their coupons
and things like that.
CT: What are the se6urity arrangements made?
KR: The security is jighter thro last year. Traffic is stopped
at KV lIT itself. Be:ond this we cannot do any thing.
CT: Dr. Kuriakose is supposed to have said 10.30 is the limit for
OAT progra:lllIles. How "Jas this decided upon?
KR: vIhat can you do yaar? How enn we change the verdict? He might
even ask the power supply to be switched off after 10.30. Other
programmes can go on till 11 or 11 .30. Of course the video v/ill go
on till midnight.
CT: But you haven't been told the actual reason?
KR: Reason? He said uI'll tell you latera,
contd.

