Text of Dr. S. Radhakrishnan's Speech at the first
Convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology,
Madras Held on 11th July 1964
Friends,
I am very happy to be here, this afternoon, to see the work of
this Institute of Technology and meet the first batch of students
going out of thi~ Institute. I was present on similar occasions at
Kharagpur and Bombay. It gives me a 8pecial pleasure to be here
an. watch the growth of this Institute. I am also pleased that
this work is due to the collaboration of the Indian and the German
Governments. Prof. Leubke, the President of the German Republic
sent us a gracious letter to-day. He was recently re-elected President of the Fedel al Repu blic of West Germany and we are all
extremely pleased that his Government and his country and this
-Institute will all have the benefit of his guidance and leadership'
for another five years. By that time, I hope this Institute will
establish itself, so as to make for enduring friendship between the
two nations-the German and the Indian. Both your Ohairman
and the German Am bassador referred to the history of this Institute beginning with a visit which the late Prime Minister paid to
Germany in 1956.
Our country has been passing through a series of very rapid
changes in recent times. We have had teligious reforms initiated,
in our times, by Ram Mohan Roy, Ramakrishna, VI vekananda and
Tagore. We have had social reform movements started also by
the same agencies. Gandhiji gave us the political revolution.
He asked us to shed off the shame of subjection, become independent, and stand erect on our feet and not always walk on our
knees. In 1947, when we attained independence, Jawaharlal
Nehru thought it was time for s!.arting an industrial revolution.
Poverty is the greatest problem facing the country and the only
way in which we can tackle the problem of poverty, is by increasing production-agricultural and industrial and the way to do it, is
by the application of science and technology. If today, in different parts of our country, we see dotted Institutes like this,
laboratories, dams, atomic reactors and irrigation systems, all these

