10

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

things aro due, to no small extent, to the urge which Jawahal'lal
Nehru gave to our country. In recent times, therefore, we have
had a spiritual revolution, a social revolution, a political levolution
and an industrial revolu tion. It is t he Industrial revolu tion
through which we are passing. Now, this has the benefit of the
cooperation of the Gernlan Government. This country during its
great days, was never isolated: It was a part of the strf'alU of
world history If you turn to the ancient systems of Mathematics, Medicirle atc. you will find there, the great influence
of the Greek, of the Roman, of the West Asian and other systems.
If you turn to the European world, you will find that the great
advances of science were due to the co.operation of people, like
the Englishman Newton, the German Kepler, Copernicus the Pole
~nd Galileo, the Italian. All of them collaborated and blOUght
about the scientific revolu tion of the modern world. So also,
"We were collaborating with other nations in our great days.
V\t'P"hen we fell into subjection, when we were cut off from othel·
sources, we became isolated, our lives becatne constricted and "\\7'e
were not able to carryon the torch as we used to.
A..fter politic&l independence was gained, we have again, come,
back into the mainstream of world history and our scientists go to
different parts of the world and win laurels fol' themselves, making no small con'tribution to the advance of know ledge. They are
known to-day, in all parts of the world, where science is pursued;
and, therefore, it is a matter of great significance, that we have
staged a come back and this particular Institute, where you have
the collaboration between Germany and India, is an illustration of
the ancient truth that all countries contribute to the furtherence of
knowledge and that we must seek knowledge wherever it is found.
That was the gospel which we adopted al1d which W8 practised for
a large number of yearA. We forgot it; we wel'e cut off from it;
and we have come back to it to-day, and therefore we must try,
to-day, to regain our lost initiative, and try to do our very best.

It is necessary that we attack the problems which our country
faces-poverty, malnutrition, disease, defective water supply etc.
things which must make us feel ashamed of ourselves. It is necessary for us to care for the poor. Attention to the poor is the
supreme test by which any Government is Judged. If we are to be.

