PRADEEP

11

judged as a ci vilised Government, our first interest must be-what
we are doing for the thousands of people who are suffering from
undreamt of evils, people who are the vi~tims of all sorts of epide~
Lnics and die on the pavements of our country or in rural al eas. If
we want to tackle t.hese problpms, it is essential for us to develop
science and technology. We must adopt a scientific outlook. Every
one of us lnust be endowed with a scientific Spilit and obscurantism
supet'stition ano 8uch other things as have weighf>d us do~ n for
centuries must be removed and hu man beings must ff'el thEY are
ra.tional bl-ings endowed with dignity and with a EenEe of re~ponsi­
bilitY-l'esponsibility not merely for what they do, but for the poor
who are en trusted to thE'ir particu lar care. Again and a ga in
remarks aloe made-a 8pecial1ecture was delivered the other day at
Cambridge saying that a scientific culture and an academic or
literary clllture were two different things and one has little to do
with the other. We produce either seers or technicians. we
produce men of intuition, of imagination or produce men with
mechanical skill, with practical ability; but we do not produce
men who are, at the same time, both seers and technicians;
people able to develop their imagination and, at the same time,
develop their scientific skill. This whole concept of our culLures
being divided, of their being two, is something, to my mind, which
is unfounded. Truth is indivisible-whether it is historical truth,
literary truth or scientific truth-the approaches may be different.
But, ultimattly what we do is exactl:y the same. lt is the lmagination that i8 roused in us by the study of literature. It is imagi..
nation again that nlakps the scientist go forward with his hypothe~is, makes him l'e-mould his el1vironmE'nt and n1akes him bring
out the deepest secrets of nature. It is thls spirit in man tbat sits
in judgment over the facts of nature and enables him to re-shape
his environment. We should re-shape not m(;\rely our outer environnlent, but our inward environment also. Our inward forces, the
internal power that we have-even that has to be remouldEd.

I listened, with great interest, to the pledge which your graduates have just taken-that "I will not use my knowledge for
unworthy ends ". It is easy to say that. We have all said that at
convocation ceremonies. But, WP, generally, forget these things
when we enter life. N at only do we forget these things but our
leaders also forget it, lea.ders who are, otherwise grea t as states-

