12

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

men, or men who have developed astounding powers over Nature,
or have developed a spectacular capacity to destroy humanity as
well as to save it.
If we are threatened, to-day. by the very forces which we have
created, it is not due to these forces, but due to our lack of control
over them. It is not weapons that destroy us, but it is the lack of
wisdom, it is the inhuman being who destroys the rest of humanity
If we are to refine ourselves then science will have to be a positive
instrument for the d~velopment of the hunlan race, for improvement of its quality. That is what we should aim at. It, therefore,
gives me great pleasure to know that in your institution, you are
studying not merely technological subjects, but, also the funda ..
mental Sciences and Humanities. These are subjects that have a
. great bearing on the refinement of the human soul. These are the
things that remould your nature-ATHMA SAMASKRITHINV AVA SILPANI-All the technical disciplines which yon have are
there only for the purpose of refining the human spirit. ATHMA
SAMSKRITI-the development of human nature. The refinement
of the human spirit, is the only supreme aim which we have to put
before ourselves. Most of us think that we are scientists. Why?
because if we press a button, the light comes up; we press another .
button and the telephone rings; we press a thira button and get a
motor cal' parked outside. But VoTe do not know how these things
function. What is the knowledge which is enshrined in these
ineb'umenta? We know only how to press a button and get something done-we live only on tho surface of human life. We do not
know what these things indicate and stand for. If we will never
say that Scienc., is a discipline different from others like literature
or history, we must study science not fro,m surface but its very
depths. We must try to understand how the human mind has been
able to penetrate into all these mysteries of matter and how it has
brought about a new, transformed world? It is not necessary for
us to be technologically or nlechanically uniform. If we ha ve the
human spirit cultivated, we will not become mere, mechanically ..
minded robots. The very transformation which Ecience IH~s brought
about will make you raise the question of the meaning of existenee
That is a part of the quest for knowledge. You have to know, why
knowledge is what it is, what is the knowledg~ which science contributes, what is its relation to the knowledge which other diEci-

