Text of Speech delivered by Dr. G. F. Duckwitz,
Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in
India, on the occasion of t he First Convocation of the
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, on the
11th July 1964.
Your Excellency Mr. President, Your Hjghness, the Hon'ble
Chairnlan of the Board of Governors, Mr. Director and staff of the
Institute, students, ladies and gentlemen.
Let me thank you for your kind invitation to attend tbe first
ConvocatIon of the I.I.T., Madras which I have accepted wi1h
n1uch pleasure. This day is indeed a land-mark in the life of the
Institut~ and a day to relnembel' for YOH and me. The com bined
efforts of Il.dia and (J-ermany to estaLIish this Institute have at
last borne fruit. The first batch of students have completed 1heir
education and are leaving the Institute to assume their responsibihties in the industrial development of their country.
It is ouly natural that our minds wander back to the day
in 1959, when this first batch of 120 students entered the Institute.
They had to study under very difficult conditions. Most of the
buildings bad not yet heen conlpleted and wany of the laboJa1ories
and wor~ shops had not bt- en installed. The teaching had to take
place in l'entpd roon1S in various other institutions in Madras.
What a tren1endous progress has been made since then, the progress which, in 1~59, onE' would hardly bave thought possible. 1he
credit for the enornlOUS construction and organi~atjol1al wOlk that
has since been completed goes to the unremitting zeal and f'ner~y
which, you, Mr. Sengupto, had brought to your task, as Director
of this Institute. I should like to thank you and your colleagnes
for the whole- h£jarted cooperation you have gi.ven, without which,
this Indo-German project would not have reached this successful
stage. At t.he same time, I ~ho111d like to thank our German
Profebsors and Fon'men, for having contribut~d equally to the
progrp8s of the LI.T., for setting up workshops and laboratories
and by imparting to the students, their experience and technical
know-how. Ho\vever, let me add that the time has not yet come

