PRADEEP

15

'when 'we can sit back and satisfy ourselves V\'ith wrat has been
achieved. Undoubtedly, a lot remain8 to he done. A mtlltittlde
of problems have still to be tackled. New tasks lie ahead in
connection with the ex~{>nsion of the Instltu1 e, 'AThieh i~ at PI'( ~ent
being discussed between the Indian and the German Governmente.
Nevf'rth~lesR,

I fll'n1ly believe that all problems can be solved
if we coutinue to cooperate with goodwIll, patIence and understanding for each other's problems. I am confident that we will
all do our best and succeed in rnaking this Institute \vhat it was
intpnded to be ","'hen the assistance for 1his project was offered to
the late PrinH~ Mini~ter, Mr. N ehr\] in 19'16 That 1his Institute is
of reputed high standard, is bpyond dOll bt, To the students, it
imparts not only theoretical text-book knowledge, but a180 practi.
cal workshop experienee.

In concltlsion, let me say to you, the first batch of young
Indian enginee)"s, that it is a proud and happy ddy for me to be'
here to-day in your rnidst, to wa t('h you receive your diplomas and
take thc opportunity to wish you a bright and successful future.
I cannot stress enough the important role you have to play
in the onward march of your country, a role to which you have to
dt-\vote the same enthusiasm and fervour that you b,'ought to your
academic studies. For any country to progress, it is necessary to
have a strong, intelligent, educated and dedicated group of yaung
people, who are fully equipped to undertake the great tasks that
he ahead. 1 anl confident that you are also oquipped and wish you
good luck and godspeed.
May I add to my few words, a message I just have received,
MI'. Pl"esident, from the PreE!idelJt of the. Federal Republic of
Germany?
" It gives me great pleasure to congratulate the Pl'OfeEBOrs and
students of the 1. LT., Madras most cordially on the occasion of
their first Convocation. Ever since my visit in Decem bel' ] 962,
I have been closely connected with thiR Institute. It is
our common desire that this day further strengthen the tradition
of scientific co . . operation, so beneficial to India and Germany. I
specially send my best regards to President Radhakrisbnan who, I
heal' with pleasure, is lending his presence to this Convocation.".

