THE YEAR THAT WAS
S. Kurnar

It has been a year of quiet progress. The construction
programme is running on schedule. The various Departments
have not only moved to their nevr buildings but have intensified
their research activities. The Metrology building is fast coming up,
On the eve of the Third In ter 1. 1. T. Sports and Cultural Meet.
a first-class stadium was commissioned and the Meet itself was
inaugurated by the Nawab of Pataudi, our country's Cricket
Captain. A full account of this SPOtts Meet is publi@hed els8wbere
in th is issue.
The I.1. T. Central School, just off the Gajendra Circle, was
formally inaugurated on 20th January 1965 by Dr. A. L. Mudaliar,
in the august presence of Dr. C. D. Deshmukh and Rajah Sir
Muthiah Chettiar.
The Alumni will ge interested to know thai Second Seminar on
collaboration between Industries and Institutes concerned vvith
technical education was conducted in our Institute in June 1964.
Besides a number of technical institutions, top executives from
some of the premier industries participated in this Seminar conQuoted by the Institute of Applied Manpower Research, New Delhi.
This Seminar w.as considered a grand success all·round.
Shri R. N atarajan, the Institute's first Registrar, will lea ve
the Institute shortly and return to the Government of l\:fadras to
take his place in the ranks of the Indian Administrative Service.
He will be succeeded at the Institute by Shri C. V. Sethunathan
Shri Sethunathan taught Physics at the Vivekananda College,
Madras and at the V. O. C. College, Tuticorin. Prior to joining
the Institute, he has been Principal and Head of the Department
of Physics at Sri Sankara College, Kaladi, Kerala State.
Shri N atarajan has played a vigorous role in the building up
of the Institute and has rendered outstanding service in orienting
its major policies. His infectious enthusiasm for work, his readiness to demolish bottlenecks and his spirit of friendliness that rose
above all distinctions of cadre or rank, will be cherished by all \vho
were in one way or another connected with the work of the Institution. The siaff of the Institute will gr~atly miss this charming
personality in th~ discharge of their day~to-day responsibilities.
Shri N atarajan carries with him the good wishes and affection of a host of friends at 1. 1. T., Madras.

