A STUDENT IN NEW YORK
G. N. Sarma
"No one who sets foot in the United ~tates need do so as a
stranger, for the United States 13 a nation tnade up of people of
many nations, colours, and cl'eeds-" So goes the message from the
President of the United StateFl, which greets every visitor upon his
arrival here. During the few months which have elapsed since I
was greeted thus, I found it to be quite true. and what is more, the
visitors are so common in the city of New York, that nobody ever
bJthers about them! The result was that quite soon after my
arrival I was able to ·move about in New York Eke a native!
But I will never forget the time when I firf:'t set out to locate
the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn-the destination of my long.
travel from India. As I emerged out of the subway at the Hoyt
Street, and stepped on to tll'~ road, with some insufficient directions
scribbled on a piece of paper, I discovel'ed that it made no difference which way I proceeded-- -all looked alike. I had not
picked up the' American' language by that time, and so I gave up
asking people for directions, after a few trials. So I started walking in some random direction, scanning the sky for a tall skyscraper that looked like the Poly I had seen in the photographs.
The Jay street, on which the Poly is located, is unfortunately an
extremely short stretch of a road, so that it was quite some time
before my random motions took me to the right place, The Poly
100ked much smaller than I had imagined. Soon after I started
roaming the corridors of Poly, I ran into them-the Indians (from
India-and not from the mid- West). I found there was quite a
pack of them stalking around. They were extremely helpful in
familiarising me with the various aspects of the life at Poly, and
with the art of survival there.
Thus started my life at Poly, and during the one full semester
that has since elapsed, I was thoroughly impresled by the high
quality of instruction, by the intuiti ve genius of some Americans
in handling practical problems, and by their dazzling intelligence,
often revealed by the sizzling questions which the students fire at

