18

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

the teacher. But neither myself, nol' Mr. Gowrinathan had any
great difficulty in following the lectures or in answering the quiz
problems. In fact, we are llroud to report that we bave bf'en
extremely successful in the First Semester, as revealed by our
grades. The truth is that the backgJ'ound providrd by the llnderb'raduate instruction at I. I. T. Mad! as has been more than sufficient to enable us to study here easily. The insLl'llction given at
1. L T Madras compares very favourably with the instruction
available here. Considedng the fact that we, in India, lack many
facilities which are rfladily accessible here, the staff nlembers of
the I. 1. T. Madlas deserve to be complemented. Of course, it
should be admttted that the laboratory training here is superior,
and the many fascinating reseal'ch vrograms that are constantly
under way give the distinctive air of scholastic sophisticatIon
- which our Institutps do not mani.fest to the fame degree This I
attribute, to the lack of funds, to th~ lack of enthusiaSln among
the industrialists in India for' }'c}seal'ch pl'ograms, and to the unfortunate circumstances, in which we find ourselves chockEd with
the necessity for an extremely rapid economic and industrial
growth. Pardon me for side-traeking into an assessment of our
problenls, but such a thing is inescapable when one sees the
prosperOllS America arollnd him. and abks lllmself, 'What do we
lack?" I asically, I feel, we Indians are potentially capable of
development, but we do not have the regenen1tive, establiE:,htd.
econonlic machinery to develop ont as the Anlel'icans have.
Coming back to OU1~ Poly, let us take a closer look at these
Poly men. These don't fit into any possible definition. They UJ e
normally a cheerful-looking lot at the bf'ginning of the semester,
somewhat sober by mid-term and pnthetic by the end of the term.
The reason~ are obvious. Tl'ne to the American habits, they constantly feed on the contents of the autornatic vending machines
that are located on each floor, in plenty Many of them are
employed. and sponsored by companies like Bl~ll Labs, 1. B. M. and
others. All polymen, as a rule, are sore about the fact that Poly
does not have a campus worth mentioning. The sports acth-ities
are constantly l'eported on the notie ~ boardt:. I guess they
are all held on the courts and gyms of some neighbolll'ing
school. If one overlooks these small di~advantages, and looks
only at the academic side of the Poly, sure, Poly is the place for
t

