19

PRADEEP

gra.duate study. As you all know, it
institutes in the E. E. branch.

IS

one of the tor.-ranking

One asp0ct which is \VOl'th nlentioning is the placementserVlCe, A. large ntllnbeJ' of firms send theiL' interview comlnittee~
to Pnly once or twice a yeal'. The prospective graduatEs fill in
the Q. R. (Quahfication Record) fornls witl! the appropriate details
and subnlit them to the placement office, which checks and spnds
them to the COtUpanles. The hst of c~ndidates called for interview
is put up on the notice board. N onnally, the company comes 10
the Insntute to interview, and selects its men. An average
student ends up with about half.·a-dozen offers, froln which he
chooses. The surety of f'lnploynlent has an important effect on
the students-vel'Y few stlldpnts are ailnless. Most of them are
Eerious about studLes, and work with the goal of pal'ticulal kind of
emploYln~nt in view. No wonder they are hard~wol'klng. It is
worth comparing with the conditions in our Institute. No doubt"
. the job opportunities are nluch fewer in India. But a placement
office could bring to the notice or the students the various kinds of
openings available, and what these jobs require of them. This could
make the stude'lts less aimless, and enable them to plan ahead. "'I am
sure the ma.jority of the students at present do not have any idea as
to what kinds of jobs are available, or what the industry requires of
thflm. A gf)od placement office could relTIOVe such vagueness, make the students more objective, and avoid the wastage of time after
gr'aduation, and some disappointment. It serves as a good link
between the prospective graduates and the industry, and I f~el that
this could be P:l.l't of the much-talked-about co-operation between
the educational institutes and the industry. Extrapolating, it
might even cover ca.ses of Industrial projects on which 1he prospecil ve prnploYf'e (say, a student in M. T~ch. course) can work on,
even while he IS a student! I feel that the placement service can
be very-useful to an ln~tit,ute like ours, and can play an important
role in aVJidlng wastage of the technical talent.
Being in New York, it is not fair not to say something about
it. At first signt, New York baffles the visitor, with its amazing
complexity, and it is really quite son1e time before one can make
any sense out of the crazy way of living here. Bllt once it ib done
Ii ving in New York is perhaps a simpler proposition than living
1

