THIRD INTER I. I. T. MEET
B. S. Sudhir Chandra.

The 28th day of Decem ber 1964 marked the red letter day in
the history of Ind ian Institute of Techno]ogy, Madl'a8. The long
awaited day had COIne at last. A grand welcome was accorded· to
the participants who had come from our sister 1. 1. Ts. situated at
Kharagpur, Bombay, Kanpur and Delhi. The campus was gay
coloured and the sapling planted on ~i ther side of the roads made it
only more pleasant. It was a novel idea to house the partieipants in
various hosteII thus increasing the intiInacy among the students.
On 28th morning all the roads led to the newly construoted
stadium. The stadium was jam packed with sport enthusiasts who
were going to witness the proceedings of the 3rd inter J. I. T. Meet
to be held for the first time in Madra8. The Chi~f guest of the
Dlorning, none other than the young Indian Cricketeer, Nawab of .
Pataudi, of whom we have heard much in the recent days, was
accorded a warm reception. The Rector, Prof. B. Sengupto gave a
formal introduction of ' Pat t as one who had revived test cricket
in India. Pataudi declared the meet open and the five contingents
marched past the saluting base. The pledge was taken by Srikantof home team. Pataudi, in his short speech, stressed the role of
games and physical training play in the University career. He was
glad that 8uch a meet was staged in a technical institution. He
wished that many Buch gatherings be held in other institutions in
our country.
The meet started off ~ with a ban g for the start of the first
heats of j 00 m. sprint in which two from the home team qualified
for the final. Joshi Paul gave a flying Etart for the home team by
winning the first place in the long distance 5000 m. race. It was a
treat to watch hirl:1 finishing the last lap. The next item that
attracttd everyone's attention was the High jump (tlvent where
Ganguly of Bombay cleared the bar set at 5'-8!" which bettered
last year's record by about 4". Dandapani of home team
stood second in that event. Simpson of Kharagpur was adjudged the fastest man in the meet when he clocked 11.6

