22

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

sees. in the 100 m. sprint. D. Swarup of Bombay made a sprint
doul:>le when he won 200m. and 400m. races. Joshi Paul of home
team was once again the cynosure of all eyes when he knocked off
the first place in 800m. and 1500m. races incidentally setting up
new records. M. Kalappa the six·footel' from home team, trok a
Kangaroo hop when he broke the record in the Hop·Step and Jump
event. Congratulations to D. Swarup of Bombay who bad been
adjudged the best athlete. Kharagpur walked away with the
athletic championship followed by Bombay and Madras. The
honle team definitely put up a better performance this year in the
track and field events. An I. 1. T. radio station was set up in the
stadium broadcasting at a frequency of I Me/s, the highlights of
the programme on the first day being a talk by the Registrar and
an interview with Pataudi, besides relaying a running commentary
of the events taking plaee every day.
J

Coming to Gymnastics, Kharagpur snatched away all th~ first
places. V. V. Singh of Kharagpur was particularly very impressive and executed the delicate exercises over the horizontal and
parallel bars with grace. Kharagpur maintained the lead in
Gymnastics too.
In the field of gamee. the home team's performance was fairly
good. Victories in Food-ball and Volley-ball over the formidable
opponents (Kharagpur) came as surprise packagee: for the new
year. In Foot-ball the home team won by the odd goal in three
against Kharagpur after trailing 0-1 at half time. In the final
against Bombay our boys put up a fine performance and won by a
sa tisfactory margin. In Volley- ball the home team not only
extended Kharagpur to 5 sets in the final but also succeeded in
defeating theln in the thrill packed fina.l set . We were unfortunate
to have met Kharagpur in the first round. Both teams were
well balanced and the better team won. Kharagpur went on to
win the final against Bombay comparitively easily. We failed
miserably in Table Tennis and lost to Kharagpur in the
very first round. Khal'agpur beat Bombay in a keenly contested final. Thus Bombay had to give away the trophy held
by them for two years. In Shuttle cock badminton we made
the exit in the first round being defeated by Bombay. Bombay
maintained their supremacy by defeating Kharagpur in the final.

