"ON ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS "
"Prof. R. K ri.hnamurti

The desire for keeping in touch wah the past is inborn in man.
This desire manifests itself in various ways. In the case of educa..
tional institutions (Universities, Colleges and Institutes like the
Indian Instituie of Technology, Madras), one way in which this
desire is satisfied is by the formations of Alumni Association and
every student joining it as soon as he leaves the Institute. Such
associations are usually called "Old Boys' AEEociatlon " J "Old
Students' Association" and" Alumni Association t'
These associations ha.ve one cornmon desire and purpo~e.
Membership of the Association is nominally optional. But all the
students are ad vised to become members, and U Bually they do,
particularly in the earlier stages. The mem bel's keep in active
touch with one another and with the Institute as often ae possible.
They are interested in the growth and development of their alma
mater, write to the Director tor Principal) and memb~rs of the staff
periodically, and feel very happy when they receive an acknowledgement, even if it be a mere post card. As years roll by, it may
happen that the Head of the Institution and Professors will have
retired from service, and their places taken up by new person!.'.
But this does not at all affect the relationship between the al'llmnus
and the alma rnate,.. The alumf~us keeps in touch with his old
teachers by writing perBonalletters to them, and feels very happy
when he receives a reply, in which probably an enquiry is made
about him, his family and about the kind of work he is engaged in.
Or, he may write to the present Sflt of Professors whom he may
not know at all, except by name (in some cases) in the following
words: "Dear Sir, I was a student of the Institute during .....
years, and did my •.••• course there. When I was studying
Prof. · ... · was the J)irector, and I had the privilege of studying
under Professors ..... and .... I understand that quite a few of
them have retired from service. I shall be grateful if you can
acknowledge receip~ of this letter, and keep me infornled about the
Institute, its work, its development etc." He may alBo add a

