PRADEEP

25

sentence or two about hitnself, what he has been doing, ever since
he took hi&! diploma etc.

Such contact (even though they may be by post only) between
the prepent staff and the past studentws of the Inst.itute will be a
source of joy to all. 'rhey aloe very necessary, pUl'ticu lady in the
case of an Institute likt' tho Indian Instituto of Techology, Madras,
whose students come from different parts of India (north and east
and south and west) and '1/ho, aftet' completing thoir oourse, go
back to various parte of the country (it may bt tha.t qnite a few of
them go outside India also)and are anxious (whel'over they may be)
to maintain their contacts with their al?na mate',.. W hen two such
alumni meet after some years, what eager c{)mpal'ing of notes thero
is t I-Iow they temporarily forget the pu,ssage of the intervening
years and go back in itnagination to thos(' days (probably far away
long ago) when t hey were Btudent~ of the InHtituto and w hf'n thoy
studiod under such and fo:!uch eminont Profe1:-\sor8. Th~y pronounce
their verdicts again on their old teachers, (how some of them wer~
inspiring, others were nlasters of tht'il' Btl bjects but poor in expression
and how a, few of them were terrible bores), try to remem btn' the
names and su bsequent history of some of their class-mates. and think
of their boyish days and pt'anks-·how now and then they had played
the truant from the clalSs room, and sat quietly and stealthily in their
rooms in the lIoste), sn10king a cigarette or perhaps reading a book
by P. G. Wodehouse or l£l'le Rtane]y Gardner. If it is any two alU1nni .
of the first or second batch of students, they might recollect how
when they firAt joined the Institute in 1959 or 19GO, it was all a
mere wooded valley I and how slowly buildin g after buildin I, work·
shop after works hop, hostol after hostel came into being, providing
the 'students with every facility for study and comlDunity life. Or,
they might think of the first Convocation, wh0re Dr. S. Radha..
krishnan, President of India, delivered the brilliant U011vocation
Address, how it was an inlposing function, and how after the cere ..
monial function there was a grand dinner at which the past and
present students mingled freely along with the staff, and how the
events of tha.t great day wer(;i implanted in their memol'ieo. These
occasional me~tings and exchanges of confidpnce are among the
choicest pleasul'Ps of life.
After the passage of years when, for examplt" the Institute 1s
planning to celebrate its Golden Jubilee or Diamond Jubilee or

