26

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBEll

Platinum Jubilee, it is likely that some of its old alumni are occupying positions of trust and responsibility in ~arious parts of the
world. How proud the alma mate'l" ,vill be to write to them, and ask
them to grace the function with their presence, and if that was not
possible, at least to send a message. Have we not read that Christ's
College, Cambridge, is proud of having had Milton as its student:
Sir I~ac Newton was a student of Trinity Collflge, Cambridge and
William Harvey had his education at Caiu8 College, Cambridge;
and this University has given them very high places among her
distinguished sons. Other Universities in England and the continent have equally illustrious names in the list of their alumni.
The Universities of the Sorbonne in Paris, Aachen and Braunschweig in Germany, Harvard, Wisconsin, and the Massachussett
Institute of Technology in the United States have such a long list
of alumni, who have become famous, and who are remenlbered
. with affection and pride by their alma matter. May it not
be that when the twentieth century has rung itself out, and
the 21st century is usherea in, some of our alumni will
have made their mark in an outstanding manner in some
special field! Again, one of the al'umni (he may be from the
Punjab or Kashmir or Nepal .•. I am purposely mentioning names
fron1 the extreme north of India) may happen to pass through
Madras twenty-five years from now, and may visit his old alma
'mater, call on the Director, and the Professors, and have a pleasant
half hour's chat with them. It is likely that almost all the Professors under whom he studied had retired, but there may be a
solitary exception who recognises him, addresses him, in the
singular, gently pats him on the back, putR an intimate question
or two to him about his family etc. and (may be) requests him to
address the present batch of students. The Director will, when
introducing him to the audience, refer to the years of his stay at
the Institute and proudly announce that he has got with him in
his office-records the placement sheet of Mr ..... along with a
photograph of his, when he was about 20 years of age 1 This will
be one of the rarest experiences in the life of the alumnus. It is
most likely that he will blush with a secret sense of joy on the
spot, and on returning home communicate it to his friends and
relations.
It might interest the alumni of the Institute to know that a
Placement Section" has been constituted by the Board of
U

