PRADEEP

2·7

Governors, and that its work will be to keep in touch with the
alumni on the one hand, and different sources of employment on
the other. and to facilitate contacts between them to the advantage of both. A Directory of the alumni is also being prepared,
giving information about each student during his stay at the
Institute, and also his subsequent career. The Professor who is the
President of thA Alumni association is in charge of this Placement
Section, and is already busy gathering information about each
student. Every altimnus should keep in close touch with the Placement Section as a matter of duty, and also because such a contact
will benefit him and other alum'ni.
It has been well said that one of the criteria for judging the
grc'atness and usefulness of an Institution is to find out the strength
of its alumni association, the personnel of its executive, and the
number of distinguished people whom it has on its rolls. The
authorities of the Institute should see to it that every g-raduand
joins the association, that he continues his contacts with it, and
that the list is kept upto date. It will be a very good thing if
periodically reports are sent to the alumni about the growth of the
Institute, important changes in staff, and any other matter which
would be of general interest. The receipt of such a communication
gives an emotional satisfaction to the alurn,nU8 and he feels happy
that his alrna mater remem bers him and communicates with him.
The Latin phrase alma mater means "kind or benevolent
mother". The Institute has a right to expect everyone of her
children to be loyal and grateful to her, to be proud of her, and to
keep in active touch with her. An Alma mater is something great,
something noble, something sacred. Its appeal is irresistible. On
every possible occasion, her children must come back to her and
offer their obeisance to her. They should become active members
of the Alurnni Association, and be in close touch with their alma
mater and among themselves. The Alumni Association might be
com pared to an ever-lengthening chain, a chain made of links of
grateful affection and reverential regard. The longer the chain,
the greater will be the glory of the lal1na mater. It is th~ good
fortune of the earliest batches of students to help in forging the
chain. It will be the duty of their successors to keep the chain
untarnished and evershining.

