LOOKING BACK
S. Gowrinathan.
If I venture to write about life in Amt!rican Universities, I
would be repeating what all of you have already heard from our
" American Returned ". So I shall I make it as refreshing as I can,
also knowing fully well how American life and activity have been
publicized through magazines, films and other such media. What
I would like to write about is how nly country looks from these very
different surroundings. I cannot help smearing this article with
some of the natuL'al desperation and frustration which a foreign
studeut frorn a developing country experiences when he sees the
. ad vanced state of this country.
There exists a sort of complex among many of our students
coupled with fear whether their background at 1. 1. T. Madras
would be enough to pursue higher educalion in U. S. A. I found the
going at 1. 1. T. tough and even boring at times but academically
{which is very important) the training is superb. The students will ,
realize this probably better when they leave. Our B. Tech compares very favourably with the B. S. of American Universities. So
this should answer Inany of the letters which raise this que~tion.
Right from the time one gets off at the J. F. K. Airport and
enters the dazzling New York, 'one is forced to compare it with
our cities. It becomes a sort of mania and you mentally compara
every facet of American life, their food, their customs and of course
their material wealth with conditions back at home. You often
find yourself asking the question-why? How are these people
enjoying this fantastically high standard of living? This result!:S
again in a com parisoR of youl'self with all the Alnericans, startin g,
of COUl'se, with the students to find that they are in no way superior
to YOU. Then again the big question-why? looms larger than ever
before.
In fact, some Indians here in U. S. A. rernark of the American,
with all his high standard of living, t. You know they don't have
peace of mind. In this highly competitive set-up they are just

