PRADEEP

29

breaking up". Not that the Americans don't have problems. Have
you ever met a student who normally gets '8' grades complaining
when he gets an 'A'? American problems atOe similar to the problem
of that ace student. f'or them, poverty means no week-end parties,
no vacations, no yacht may be. Needless to say, for us these are
super-luxuries. One graduate Rtudent here earned a net sum of
800 dollars in summer in two months, working aR a waiter if you
please. If waiters were paid that much in our country, I am quite
sure many of our students would be willing to follow the
American practice of " Earn while you learn."
The much pu blicised porblem of poverty in Appalachia, their
juvenile delinqency problem, all look insignificant to us who have
seen worse situations. In fact, I couldn't help remarking to some
friends here that the~ nlake much of their problems. But then,
how can they be so philosophical as we to look at really serious
problenls and console themselves saying that it could have been
. worse. Perhaps that stems from being civilised and cultured right
from B. C., thereby acquiring maturity, for according to Freud,
" Maturity is to learn to accept the bitter truths of life."
Most Indians here either blaIne the population or the Gevernment or sonle such thing. But I feel that we are being very naive
not to take the blame on ourselves.
It is our very attitude
towards life, alII' philosophy of contentment, our philosophy of
simple living and high thinking. India from ten thousand miles
stands as a symbol for this pseudo-spiritualism. This pseudo spiri.
tualism has resulted in a lack of enterprise among us. We are a
nation of intelligent people by any standards as can be seen from
the academic standing of Indian students here. But we lack that
dash necessary for success. We don't want to take risks for the
better or worse. "Play it safe" is our motto, our national policy as
such.
What lnan knows is Science, what he doesn't know is philosophy, what he fee1s is literature, what he does is economic activity
and I dare say the Americans are very active.
Another thing which struck me was the way the American
students combine fun and pleasure with work-No high thinking
and simple living stuff. They prefer to compl'omise, it seems.

