BIRTH AND BAPTISM OF THE I.I.T. MADRAS
R. N atarajan, I. A. S.

It was the best of times, it was the worst of times- best because
Madras was blessed with an Institute of heroic dimensions, worst
because there was no steel or cement to build it with. It was the
age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness-wisdom because the
Government of India and the Government of Madras could not
have made a worthier choice of a site what with Hs stately banyan
trees, those green marlsions, foolishness since there were still some
who thought that the Institute was but a fifth wheel to the technological chariot, one more to the welter of engineering institutions
at Guindy. It was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity- belief for the pioneer mem bel's of the staff who were confident
of building an Institute in a big way not with bricks alone bllt
with burning enthuciasm, incredulity since quite a few outside
thought that the Institute would require tons of luck and pluck to
get over its teething troubles. It was the season of light, it was
the season of darkness-light as every missionary member of the
then staff considered the Institute as the Star of the South, beckoning him to unsealed heights of glory, darkness because one hund- .
red and twenty students had been admitted with nothing but
borrowed buildings and borrowed laboratories to greet them with.
It was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair-hope since
this was the only higher technological and research institution to
be started in the Soutla, despair as German equipment had jost started to arrive and suitable staff were in the process of being
recruited. We had evel'ything before us, we had nothing before
us. Tile contrasts were almost as striking as in the opening paragraph of Charles Dickens' " A Tale of Two Cities ".
To start with, the Institute started functioning" in branches"
-classes and laboratory 'Work commenced in the A. C. College of
Technology; the Institute office was set up in the Central Leather
Research Institute, while the Workshops were erected in the
prefab sheds attached to the Highways Research Station. The
nucleus of the Institute library was also set up in the t\..C. College

