32

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

of Technology. Right opposite lay part of the Deer Sanctuary,
replete with tall trees and den~e shrubbery, waiting to be tamed
and harnessed to the needs of technology. Two of the well known
architects of the city were assigned the task of carving out a Campus out of the jungle: the School of Town and Countt'Y Planning,
New Delhi, was set with the task of planning and plotting the
lay~out. The Campus started taking shape.
German collaboration also took concrete form. Dr. Hahn,
Dr. Koch, Mr. Lpchner and Dr, Scheel' joined the staff as Professors
of Mathematics, Physics, Workshop Technology and Mechanical
Engineering respectively. Mr. Ebert, Werkstattleiter took upon
himself the task of erecting the Workshops so that practical
tl'aining, for which the Germans were rightly known the world
over, could become a renowned reality. The German staff meln bers
. worked shoulder to shoulder with their Indian counterparts in
getting the Institute going with gusto. German equipment bad,
in the meantime, started to move from German ports. It was just
as well they came in a trickle as the Institute buildings were yet
to be built and storage was yet a problem. Customs clearance,
which was a challenge at first, was quickly grappled with and
jnvaluable German equipment mostly intended for the Workshops, '
started moving in. Mr. Ebert went to work on them and the
Institute Workshops started taking shape with German thorou~h­
ness.
I

On the Indian side, staff members were slowly increasing.
Dr. Venkateswarlu, Dr. Ramasastry, Dr. S. K. Srinivasan, Dr.
T. Gopichand, Mr. P. S. Srinivasan and Mr. S. Padmanabhan all
joined in quick succession. The Departments of Chemical Engineering, Physics, Mathematics and Mechanical Eengineering were
getting started, slowly but surely.
The Board of Governors and the Academic Cou neil took swift
decisions to ensure that the Institute prospered administratively
and academical1y. Shri L. S. Chandrakant joined as Special
Officer and with vigour and nerve he applied himself to the taEks
of student a.dmission and staff recruitment. 8hri R. N atarajan,
LA.S. was appointed as the first Registrar. The courses Committee met and drew up the syllabii. One hundred and twenty
students from all over India were admitted after a country~wide

