THE SCIENTISTS' RESPONSIBILITY
Pt·of. S. S a'IJ~path
The human race finds itself on the horns or a dilemma to .. day.
Adyances in science and technology have brought it to a point
where the pushing of a button will start a chain of events resulting in the annihilation of all living things in the course of a few
minutes. On the other hand, Scie-nce holds the key that can
open the door marked' human welfare' and has made it possible,
for the first time in History, to regard the betterment of the
hunlan I'ace, as a whole, as a practical objective. The scientists of the world have a responsibility for either course of action.
One has to distinguish between two categories of Scientists-the
lone worker, locked up in his ivory tower, who is too preoccupied
with his enquiries into the mysteries of Nature to bother about
the mundane consequ~nces of the application of his findings and
discoveries ~ and the other, encouraged and influenc(d by Government, who UB~S his tools and skills to advance towards specific
objectives which are placed before him. Obviou$ly the latter plays
a much more significant role in r~lation to the impact of Science
on hlllnan affairs. The crucial questions, in this connection, are:
when things appear to go wrong, how rnuch responsibility can be
laid at his door, and, if he had acted in the true spirit of Science,
could things go wrong, in the first instance? The basic tenet for
this argument will be that Science, with its vastly expanding power
to unravel the secrets of Nature and gain ascendancy over its elements, should by every angle act contribute to the happiness of the
human lace and not pave the way f0r its death and destruction.
Wo recently had a debate as to whether a country like
India should produce an atom bomb. When a ScientiRt spoke
publicly about the problem in terms of the physical hardware
involved and the effort required to make it, the politicians called
him to order, stating, that it was not his function to discuss
this problem, meaning thereby that it was for the Government to
decide whether the device should be made or not, and the job of
the scientIst was merely to carry out the tasks assigned to him.

