3S

FIRST ANNUAL NUMBER

There is no great excitement now, because the Government's
decision not to make an atom bomb conforms to the tenet that
Science should do nothing that runs counter to the welfare of the
human race. A piquant situation wou ld havp arisen if the Government decision had been otherwise. The Scientist would have had
to disavow all pel'sonal responsibility and carry out the wishes of
the Govern nlent as a loyal servant, mllch as a soldier would
perform his duties. If he declined to do thiR, the Government
would proceed to find some one else who was both able and willing.
One is reminded hore of the action of the atomic ScientistsVannever Bush, R. T. Compton, J. B. Conant, Enrico Fel mi, A. H.
Compton, E. O. La.wrence and J. R. Oppenhf'inler. w Lo recommf\nded to PrfRident Trun1an the bursting of the atOll) bombs, WI thout
prior warning, over the population of thp Japanese cities, Hirobhima
and Nagasaki. As news of the reconlmendation leaked out, a
group of Scientists at Chicago, headed by James Franck, fOrn1l1lated a solemn petit jon to the war Secretary in which they highlighted the human pl'oblenl involved and urged that, instead of t11e
bombatdment of Japan as proposed, a demonstration of thp new
weapon might be arranged. before representatives of the United
Nations, in a desert or barren island. The offiicial panel of Scientists repudiated this human approach, and the Government, with
al"l enormously powerful and new weapon in its armoury, was very
anxious to use it. The result was an act which has changed the
course of history for ever.

Why did the Government-appointed Scientists act in this
manner? Was it a hypnosis of power? A striking illustration of
this, in relation to an individual scientist, is contained in the
Godkin lectures, delivered at Harvard University in 1960, by C. P.
Snow. He was giving the audience his Vel sion of the interestir g
sequenee of events that led to the British effort behind the strategic
bombing of Germany during tne War. The central figUl e in this
was F. A. Lindemann, who became Lord Cherwell and Winston
Churchill's right~hand man dur4ng the crucial years. The idea bombing dieected against all working - class houses in all the major
cities of Germany - was scientifically unsound, and an evaluation
carried out after the cessation of hostilities proved it to have been
a misconceived and futile effort. It was opposed, at the time, in the

