THE MILESTONE
D. D. Samuel

It is a privilege for UB, human beings, to be gifted with an
indestructible metnory from which we effortles~ly draw the knowledge and experience of the past to equip OUI selves for the journey
into the future. Thus we march on a.long the highway of our
precious life with the preparation of the past, with the strifes of
the present and with the expectation of the future. We have
crossed many a milestone during this great mission and I am sure
everyone will share my opinion if I say tbe l€ap to cross the milestone of I. 1. T. life was ~ull of exciting adventUl'eE in the jungles
that shield the campus; it was full of lovely entertainment-I
mean those lectures and tutorials-it was full of pleasan t aml1sements- I mean those periodicals and examinations. Now it is a
precious and pleasant past which we are proud to recollect.
On this side of the fence to-day we realise that we have taken
pIany things from our I. 1. T. life. First of all we had the privilege of being the pioneers of this institution. Pioneering an
arduous task needs courage, confidence and above all sacrifice. It
is the pioneers who clear the way for their followprs. The waterstreams and shelters on the way are the result of their glorious
victory over the infinite struggles they came across. They are the
monuments of their generosity towards those who follow them. It
is in our sacrifice and efforts that each benefit a perEon enjoys
to-day found its footing. We have learnt to condition our lives to
challenging circumstances, unfamiliar surroundings and nlany a
time to painful but un-avoidable impositions. We have fought
ag9.inst the forces of destiny. No one can deny how exciting it
wai to cycle down four times a day in pouring rain to the present
campus. How narrow was our field of recreation. But to quoto
G. K. Chesterton, "An inconvenience is an adventure, rightly
considered.
,J

Secondly all of us are a part of the social net-work of our
country. Problems await us wherever we go. Adjusting to an
environment which is entirely strange in customs, language and

