41

PRADEEP

many other things is a challenging talk. But for an 1. I. T. an it is
nothing. Perhaps the corporate life which we enjoyed in our
hostels may be comtnon to all those who have lived in such places.
But we have learnt much more than that. We have observed the
dIfferent customs and ways of life of people of different parts of
India. May be we could not agree in many things. Or may be we
have even quarrelled. But remember quar)'els are but instruments
to achiev~ better understanding. Perhaps a present hosteler may
view his life with displeasure at certain critical times. But I am
sure when he is out of the hostel, out in the open world standing
alone to fight his problems, he will feel that he is well armed.
Every human being in this world is blessed with some iBhel'ent
talents. But every human being is not privileged to enjoy opportunities to develop them. Think for a while how many opportunities were placed before us in various fields. Some of us are good
, sportsmen; some are orators-! There are good poets anlongst us
There are so many actors.
Students of I. I. T. stand out to.. day as leading technologists
of this country. We have no doubt that as years 1'001 by Engineers coming out of 1. 1. T. will be even better. We owe this great
privilege to our learned members Qf the teaching faculty; to the .
educational pattern that governs all curriculam. We have better
workshop facilities than others. May be as the pioneers of this
institution the first few batches were not able to derive full benefit
from these. The construction of an ideal technical syllabus might
have been experimented on us. Sometimes we have been overburdened; at the same time in some fields we have been undernourished. But we are proud that we have helped all the
succeeding batches to have a balanced course of everything. We
have enjoyed all humanities lectures inlmensely. We have a
satisfaction iha t we are not only specialists in our own field of
Engineering btlt are also capable of dealing with all human
problerns. When we look back on the whole series of experiences
in the class-rooms of 1. 1. T. Elverthing is pleasant to us ; the dry
wits of our lecturers who effortlessly triec1 to please us; our best
efforts to get some leisure hours and all there. The only thing that
was unpleasant and for most of us may be still a matter that
cannot be reconciled with was perhaps the periodicals that took us
J

