Republic Day Address
by Prof. B. Sengopto.

Director.

WB are now in the shadow of a series ofa calamities, tbeuntimelylossof our late
beloved Prime Minister, Shri Lalbahadur Shastri and the tragic air·disaster
that happened a few days back with 117 persons on board in which Dr Bhabha,
one of the eminent sons of India and the foremost scientist in our 1and, lost his
life prematurely. We are facing a crisis in fOff~ign exchange and some of our
projects which had been started are far from reaching a stage of fruition.
At this critical time. the country looks to its youth who by its
discipline, devotion to work, punctuality and a sense of pride in its achievements and readiness to do hard work, can overcome these difficulties and bring
prosperity. happiness and peace to its Motherland.
[would Hke to take this ~pportunity, my young friends. to speak to you
about a few things that 1 have observed and heard from the student community
in general and from the student community of our Institute in particular. I refer
to Discipline, Devotion to Duty, Punctuality, Dignity of Labour and Pride of
Achievement.
By Discipline, we mean mental and moral training, orderly behaviour
among students, men of the armed services and other members of a community.
and a strict observance of rules of conduct on the part of everybody.
A question is often asked as to wby there should be compulsory Nee training and why should there be "left. right" all the time. What will be the consequence if we do not attend a Parade or do not attend a Camp? A few cases where
students refrained from attending the NCe Camp organised with considerable
trQuble and expenditure have been brought to my notice. My answer to this will
be that programmes for the youth of a country, academic or otherwise. are
drawn up by eminent men based on their mature experience and with an eye to
the Ileeds of the nation. Rules of conduct are made by organisations and by
society from their precious sources of the past and observance of such rules is
a bounden duty of an individual if he has to play his part in an or~anised
$ociety. community or 8rouP'

