The Bootlegger
by Alex Pbillipos

smiled to himself as he sipped his beer in a corner of the bar.
Life was indeed worth living. Everything had gone exactly as he had
planned. His trip to Bangalore had been a !luccess in every way. He had
concluded a good business deal. He had also wanted to get some liquor to take
home and he had got it, not just a little bit, but plenty. He had some friends in
the Army and the Air Force stationed at Bangalore, and they had been very
obliging in supplying him the good stuff. They got plenty of it in their Officers'
Messes at ridiculous prices. Nevertheless, it had cost him a few hundred rupees
but Narayan considered it well spent. Now it was all tucked a'Yay in his car in a
place nobody would ever suspect, and tomorrow he would be in Madras with it. Of
course there was the excise inspector's post on the Mysore·Madras border, but that
won't be a problem. As he sat there he hoped nobody knew about his plans.
Some fellows in the hotel had seen him bringing two packing cases filled with
bottles into his room, but that did not matter. The chances of their knowing his
intentions and also they I:leing excise inspectors was extremely remote. Still Narayan
wished he had used packing cases with "Soap" printed' on the outside of
NARAYAN

"WHITE HORSE FINESr SCOTCH WHISKY."

As he sat there he noticed three people entering the bar. He was~ little
surprised to note that one of them had the room next to his at the hotel. The bar
was crowded and his was one of the few tables with three empty seats. Narayan
watched them approaching with growing annoyance. He wished they would not
try to get acquainted with him. They sat down and ordered rum. Narayan was
relieved to find that they ignored him completely. Anyhow their conversation
seemed a bit interestina.
,. Sunil old boy, drink slowly. Bnjoyevery sip. This may be the Jast bit of
booze that you are going to get for a long time," said one of them•
.. Yeah,·' muttered Sunil, '. quite likely. What a rotten thing that they
don't allow this stuff in Madras. Wbat's wrong with the chaps there I wonder."
•• If only we could get some across".

Get some across! No fear! The excise fellows are pretty sharp. You
don't want to spend some time in a jail do you?"
U

