u Just listen to me.
A Fiat is good enouah. 'lhere is one place which
very few fellows know about." He looked round to make sure nobody else was
listening and then added in a low voice. "Take your spare tyre out of the boot
and fill the tyre-well with bottles. Use enough sacking to make sure they don't
make noise while travelling. As you know the tyre-wen has a wooden cover and on
top of that comes the floor mat of the foot space. So it is well hidden away."

.. But where to keep the spare tyre 1" asked one of the others in dismay.
Won't the excise fellows suspect when they see the spare tyre somewhere
outside?"
U

"Oh. that does not matter," replied Narayan, HI am sure that almost no
excise fellow knows the proper place to put a spare tyre in a Fiat. They are not
that clever. You can just put the spare anywhere else, either on top if you have a
carrier. or in the boot itself along with your other luggage. And another precaution
is to take a roundabout route. Where are you going?"
" To Madras."
U That's where I am also going. The normal route is via Kolar. But there is,
a slightly longer but rarely used route via Krishnagiri. I am going to take that
one, and I would advise you fellows to do the same. In fact I have never gone
that way but I heard it is quite a good route. Only twenty miles or so longer than
the Kolar route".

The other three were teo surprised to say anything. They just stared at
Narayan in admiration. And of course Narayan enjoyed it very much. Finally
one of them said, "Thanks a lot sir. This is the best idea we have ever heard.
Had it not been for your suggestion, we would never have been able to get the
stuff across. Now of course, it is all settled".
"Oh, that's alright!' said Narayan as he smiled at th~m indulgently. "I am
always ready to help fellows like you who are in trouble. After all, you see,
the experience of an older man is quite useful."
It was getting late and Narayan had other work to do. So after exchanging a
few pleasantries, and accepting their profuse thanks, he bade them goodbye.
It wasn't every day that a chap got a chance to show his capabilities;
Narayan left Bangalore that evening at about six. The road was good and
there was not much traffic. After a short while it became dark. He had been driving
for about an hour when he saw the red lamp in the centre of the road. Must be
the excise place. he thought. He pulled over to the side of the road and stopped.
There was a building a little away from the r~ad and he saw someone coming
towards him with a book in his hand. This is it, thoupt Narayan. Now he

