Must he calm. or they may let suspicious, The fellow was wearing khaki and as
he come near he shone his torch at Narayan aDd said, ., You are entering Madras
State and as you know no alcoholic drinks will be permitted unless you have a
special permit."
"I don't have anything".
" Are you sure sir? It is a serious offence to deny it if you have it
with you",
,. Yes. 1 am sure. Go ahead and search my car if you want, damn it".
At this moment a second khaki clad figure appeared, and be shouted,
"What does he say? That he doesn't have anything?' ,
.. Yes sir, that is exactly what he says:' replied the first person.
The second person's voice seemed vaguely familar to Narayan. Then with a
shock he realised, who it was. It was one of the three people whom he had
talked to at the bar. He was an excise inspector. When Narayan recovered from
his shock he saw that the fellow was smiling at him in a peculiar way .
.. You seem to be a bit surprised, my friend. Probably you did not expect
to see us here," said the inspector to Narayan. Then he turned to the fellow who
had first met Narayan and said, "Go and call the others from inside. Tell them
old friend has arrived .. •

a.

Soon two other men appeared from the bUilding. They were both in khaki.
Narayan recognised them as the other two of the three he had met in the bar.
So they were all excise inspectors. What a fool he wasl Narayan cursed his luck
and cursed himself for his carelessness.
.. You said you bad no liquor. Well according to the rules, we are now
permitted to confiscate any liquor we find In your car because you have denied it.
And of course, we know your secret hiding place. So please band over the key
to the boot, and we will do the needful."
Speechless with rage, Narayan handed over the key and watched them
remove his precious carlO. He could not bear to see them do this. So he went
up to them and tried to strike a bargain. He said he woul~ pay them handsomely
if they would let him keep it. They ignored him. When he saw it was no use
he started begging. It was a pitiable sight. When they had removed all the bottles
one of them said, "You are begging for a few bottles. Don't you know that
according to the rules we arc supposed to report you for attempted bootlegging? We are doing you a great favour, as it is, by not reporting you.
Anyhow sinca you have a great liking for liquor we might allow you a small

6

