Ae pearls and diamonds dropp·d. 111 bricf sono\\'
would be a rarity most belov'd, if all
Could so become it."
Sbe was calm and self controlled even in the deep anguish of her grief.
The whole character seems to rest upon two sublime principles of
human action-the love of trutb and the sense of duty. The first part of the
play shows us how Cordelia is loved and the second part how she can love. To
hear she is the "best object, the argument of his praise, the balm of his age,
most best and most dearest." "Lear loved her most and thought to set his rest
on her kind nursery." Kent loves her so much that he goes to the extent of
pointing out tbe foUy of his master to his notice. Fool loves her so much
that he pines away when Cordelia goes to France. Thus she is loved by all the
persons in tbe first part of the play. She loved ber father so very dearly that she
invades Britain with a French army to save her father from the devilish spirits,
Goneri! and Regan. Her devotion to her father is made clear enough to her
sisters. She says to them thus,
" Ye jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes Cordelia leaves you; I
know you what you are; And, like a sister, am most loath to call your
faults as they are nam'd. Love well our father. To your professed bosoms I
commit him. But, yet, alas, stood I within his grace I would prefer him to
a better place."
Hers is the power of loving witk the stronlcst, purest devotion, and
of inspiring love. She knew that when she shall marry that lord whose hand
must take her plight shall carry hatf her love with him; half her care and duty.
She is sure that sbe shall never marry like her sisters to love her rather all.
The modest pride with which sbe replies to the Duke of Buraundy is
admirable.
"Peace be witb Burgundy.
love, I shall not be his wife".

Since tbat respects of fortune are hi.

She Itas the capacity of judgin. the cbaracters of the persoDs. Thus slit.
reads her sisters alright.
The courage she displays on the occasion, however, is noteworthy. It
needs courage to brave Lear's wrath in the august assembly; and this quality
comes to her effortlessly. Rather tban competing with her sisters in their
flattering speeches and hypocrisy she would suffer the worst. Her strength of
character is thus clearly revealed in her fum determination to stand by the truth
at all cost.

