Selflessness, utter seHlessness'is the simpie seefet of CordeJia's charactet.
Though she is by no means always tongue-tied she cannot express her tendeJ
emotion, especially, to those persons whom she feels it, In the passage which
describes her reception of Kent's letter we are told, "Forth once or twice she
heaved the name of 'father' pantingly. Forth, as if it pressed her heart". She
takes up arms against her sisters not for her own sake but for the sake of her
father. The lines describing the intense of her suffering convey an exquisitely
beautiful picture of Cotdelia's grief. "Then away she starts to deal with grief
alone". When her father recognises her saying that, .. For, as I am mao, I
thank this lady to be my child Cordelia" she replies thus;
"And so I am, I am".
This single utterance reveals her intense love~ grief and anxiety.
In her speech after her defeat, we notice a calm fortitude and elevation of soul
arising from the consciousness of duty and lifting her above all considerations of
petty self. She says, "We are not the first who, with the best meaning, have incurr'd
the worst". She thinks and fears only for her father. "For thee, oppressed
King, am I cast down; Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown". She
could not answer -even a single syllable to the last words of her father. Her
fatber speaks to her thus, "No, no, no. no; come let's away to prison, we two
alone will sing like birds i' the cage; when thou dost ask me blessing I'll
kneel down, and ask of these forgivenness; so we'll live and pray and sing and
tell old tales and laugh at gildedb utter:fties".
She stands and weeps and goes out with him silent. And we sec her
aHve no more.
When Lear enters with Cordelia dead in his arms we are naturally
overwhelmed with grief. At that instant we are left only to silent and to tears.
The only consolation jf there can be any consolation at all is that Cordelia is
so much of a pure spirit that this earth of ours is not good enough for her. The
dying Lear gives us a perfe~t and visible picture of her sweet feminine nature in
those few words.
"Her voice was ever soft, gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman".
Thus in so few words has Shakespeare conveyed to us in an interesting
manner the subdued pathos and simplicity of Cordelia's character. Her
-character leavet an unforgettable impression-of angelic beauty, romantic
unselfishness and -a holy tenderness of heart. Mrs Jameson is very apt in
saying that "to Antigone we give our admiration; to Cordelia our tears".

*

*
10

*

