On Teaching Methods *
by T. Gopicbaud

TEACHING and learning is mainly a problem of comlI1unication between t:w
persons, the teacher and the taught. Wherever human behaviour is involved.
it is necessary to define the objectives and ideal conditions, then only, any discussion is meaningful. Besides definitions and discussions. a matter of equal
importance is, how any method works in a real situation and what corrective
action is necessary to attain the objectives. The Jatter could only be arrived at
by a critical assessment of behaviour of a given real system. However good a
teaching method may be, a given combination of a teacher and student may not
be benefitted by it. Whatever may be the method of teaching employed, a given
combination of teacher and student may learn. This is however, an extreme
condition, where the will of uncompromising individuals dominates and surpasses every material tenet. This essaY;3 devoted to laying down certain ideal
conditions and discussing a few suggestions for practice.
Teaching is an art. Learning is the fuffiJment of an innate desire to know.
For a perfect result of teaching and learning, the two persons-the teacher and the
taught-should be personally aware of their responsibilities and should have faith
in their ability to achieve their aims. A teaching method can only provide a
stimulus to attain a good. result, but does not guarantee it.
A teacher is not a text-book. He is not just a widely read person. He is
not a machine to give correct answers to set questions. This negative way of
starting a definition is deliberately chosen to eliminate some popular misconceptions of a good teacher. A teacher should be an individualist. He should have
his own style of teaching. George Bernard Shaw once stated, that if a person has
something to say (his own) he sets his Own style. So a teachillg method, if the
above definitions of teacher and teaching are accepted, is a private property of a
teacher-nay. it is at the core of all creative work of a teacber.
The above set of definitions are stated to recognise certain limitations to
the extent to which a desired result can be achieved, for a prescribed teaching
method. In so far.. they also help to arrive at corrective actions for any prescribed scheme.

* Presented

at a Faculty Association seminar

11

OD

"Teaching Methods".

