Before any suggestions are made to deal with reaJ situations, it is necessary
to distinguish between teaching basic principles of a subject to a large number of
students for example in undergraduate teaching and teaching at graduate level
where the teacher·to-student ratio is high.

It is necessary to recognise that certain pre,requisites and accepted obJeetiyes to be attained are to be set forth before recommending a teachint method.
So, in what follows, some useful teachini methods for underaraduate and
graduate studies are presented.

Undergraduate Teaching
The principle objectives can be stated as to teach the most basic principles of the subject and to inculcate into the mind of the students, to make it a habit
to think and to make the subject a part and parcel of his mental outfit. There
are two basic ingredients in the above objective, i. e. to inspire a student to love
his subject and to provide him with the most basic principles. To inspire a student
is not necessary, if the student comes to learn and with a love towards the subject.
However, this is the exception rather than the rule in our country. Both ofthe
above-mentioned objectives are challenging problems to a teacher.
The following

pra~tice

may be helpful to achieve the above objectives:

I.

The senior most member of the depanment should organise and teach
the first course in any subject.

J.

Demonstration lectures in pare icienccs are very helpful in inspirin,
students to learn.

3.

Intensive viva.voce in practical classes. A lot of experience is necessary,
if the viva has to be of any teaching value. A questioning method will
teach a student only if the questions are put to provoke or prod a
person to think and not if they are of a vindicative nature.
It takes a very, very long time to teach students by· ridiculin,
them or by teasing them about what they do not know.

above.

4.

A well organised tutorial system wherb most of the talking is to bt
done by students to present their doubts.

S.

Finally, a teacher must be made available for every two or three
students for bringing up their problems or doubts once a week. This
shOUld be done purely on humanitarian grounds, and can be outside
the college hours.

There are lWO major prerequisites for the leaching methods proposed
Firstly, courses of a descriptive nature are to be avoided. It is unjust to

12

