ask a teacher and a student to do a painstaking job when a course is of purely
descriptive nature and as such mayor may not require a teacher. For all such
courses, it is more beneficial and proper to educate a student by

1.

providing a museum of articles or equipment or anything which is
described in the course.

2.

to take advantage of audio-visual educational methods like motion
pictures and sljdes~

3.

to take students for a tour.

The second prerequisite is that a good supply of cheap text-books mould
be available. Then it would be possible for the teacher to devote his lecture 10
~plaln

the fundamentals.
Graduate Teaching

While the teaching at undergraduate level is to initiate a student, at the
graduate level the emphasis should be on making him a mature individual. He
should be taught to tackle problems of more and more difficult nature and as the
problems become more difficult, the teacher slowly fades out into the background
and will be of help, when it is absolutely necessary.

It such is the objective, the following teaching methods may be
helprul:

1.

The lectures should be such as to promote discussion. If students in
graduate classes do not ask logical questions, the classes are bound tQ
be un-educative.

2.

To allot topics on recent advances and initiate study and discussion in
the class room.
Work involving experimentation should initiate the individual
into the art of getting useful information and logical interpretation.
To allot project work where a student' should develop independent
ability to organise himself to present a problem and to undertake
investigation or in short to develop the thinking faculty to its fullest
extent.

3.

4.

There is one prerequisite for the above methods, They arc useful if the
programme of study is designed to be intensive in nature rather than extensive.
Studies of intensive nature only are in conformity with the objectives stated (in the
.first para of this subsection). To try to cram a little of every conceivable

