Choosing Engineering as a
Career To-Day
by Bhagaban Da

IT is undoubtedly true that career planning is of the greatest importance to-day.
This being the arbitrator of one's future destiny careful thought and consideration must be exercised in properly orienting the career at the beginning. This
would result in the reduction of losses in time, money, and human talents. Some
time ago, engineering profession was considered to be a matter of honour,
prestige, and high social status, but engineering activities are continually changing
in nature and scope. Hence one should clearly understand what he wants out of
life-material success, or opportunity for service, security, or freedom of action,
opportunity for leadership. or freedom from responsibility, social prestige, or
personal privacy, creative satisfaction or freedom from pressure.
Deciding upon this if one takes up engineering as a career he should
visualise the great task he has to implement in order that he may attain the
goals of his life.
As engineering is the professional act of applying science to the efficient
conversion of natural resources to the benefit of man, This has to be translated
into action in reality. Then only can the charm of this noble career be realized.
But unfortunately engineers in our country are not so well placed by and
large. They are placed in posts where lesser skilled people could discharge the
duties with ease. Slight introspection into the matter would reveal the tremendous waste of labour and human talents, by not properly fitting the person to
the job. The intrinsic worth of education that an engineer receives is really
great. So naturally greater returns should be expected of an enginccr. It may
be that in advanced countries, if engineers do their normal duty, it may
be a satisfactory return, but in a country like ours something more is to be
expected if it is to develop materially and industrially thereby raising the
standard of living of the masses.
It is not difficult to pin point where exactly the mistakes lie in the present
occurrisgs in our country, but taking things as they are, an engineering student
should realise that it is the day of the survival of the fittest and engineering

