A Garland or Memories
Speecb DeUvered by Sri R. Natalajaa. I. A. S.

on 1-4-1965 on the

ev~

of his Jaying down the Office of R~gistrQ'
of the 1. I. T., Madrtu.

Padma Vibhushan Dr Mudatiar, Prof. and Mrs Sengupto, Prof.
KrisJmamurthi, Mr Ramaswamy, staff-colJeagues, students, f~iends, ladies and
lel'ltlemen,
Even at the outset, before I say something, by)'Iay of reply. I must plcad
..t guilty to the compliments, mostly imaginary. that have been paid to mc.
1'hese are, usually, not excusable at alt, but baving reference to the day that we
kave assembled on-Ist April-I think this becomes a little pardonable.
'I cannot sing the old songs,
I sang long years ago
Por heart and voice would fail me
And foolish tears will flow:-said Cballote Bernard on a farewell occasion
similar to this. To try to recapture the fleeting loneliness of the fond hours and
years that I have spent at this Institute, or to ransom the many sweet memories 1
have gathered during the last six years that I have been with you is bound to land
me in a similar predicament. But I have the high authority of George Santayana
that life is not a spectacle or a feast, it is a predicament. Under such circumstances,
I will have to go through this predicament which I shall. presently.
"The sun's rim dips; the stars rush out, at one side comes the dark" wrote
the poet Coleridge when once describing the sudden descent of darkness on the
scene. Without any pretences to being a poet myself, I must confess to a feeling,
of mental darkness as the day of my departure from this Institute draws dangerously near - the dreadful day when I have to exchange my dear office room for
the visitors' room - I am refering to the morning of the 5th April. Some might
ask me what was the silken bond between me and the Institue- that strange and
deep affection. They would say that it is the lot of Government servants to leave
sweet scenes and familiar faces once in two or three years, for
'Theirs is not to mako reply
Theirs is not to reason why
'lb.eira is but to do and sigh.'
(with apologies to Lord Tennyson (or the alteration in the last word)

3

11

