But my defence and explanation is that you cannot find a pleasanter plaoe or
more congenial work spot than our Campus. I have not seen a place which
compares even favourably with this. The famous lines of Lord Byron

'There is a pleasure in the painless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where aone inside
By the deep sea and music in its roar
I love not man the less, but Nature more
From these our interviews.'
You are all very well aware that I am rerering to the Institute campus. and
the warm waters of the Elliots Beach nearby.
It was the poet Shelley who once wrote, "Life, like a dam of many coloured
glass, stains nor writes radiance of eternity.' True, life leaves many memories behind- both good and bad- sometimes sweet, sometimes sour. But my six years
stay at this 'nstitute, I must say, has been a garland of golden memories which I
am sure has been due to my bumble and lucky associations with great minds like
those of Dr Mudaliar, our respected Chairman of the Board of Governors, Prof.
Sengupto, our Director, my good friend Mr Ramaswamy, the members of the
academic staff, and members of the administrative staff.
As I felt and said on the last Institute Day, to work with you, Sir (Dr
Mudalia!) is a liberal education by itself. Dr Mudaliar has placed me under a
very deep debt of gratitude. I cannot do better than by describing him in the
words of the old Testament. 'As a lamb unto my feet and the light unto my
path: As far Prof. Sengupto, I do not really know what to say. It was Louis XIV
of France who once said, '1 am the State'. With far greater justification but
for his own innate humility Prof. Sengupto might well say, '1 am the Institute'.
He has done so much for the Institute.
I have always received the most excellent eooperation from the successive
German Consuls at Madras, the German members of the staff at this Institute.
the Directors of the Central Leather Research Institute and the A. C. College of
Technology and the staff of more institutions as also from the Principal and
members of the staff of the Guindy Engineering College.
I cannot forget my friend and colleague the Superintending Engineer.
Alladin had at least a lamp to work wonders with. Ramaswamy has been doing it
without it. I leave you to judge who is the better of the two. As for my
friends, the Professors here, they have always (rigkt from the dynamic
and 68 years young Prof. Krishnamurthi and the jovial Dr Koch
to fhe junior most of the junior technical assistants) bucked me and backed
18

