me up at every step. Professors like Vafiuri or Sampath, Nigam or
Shastri are crazy after research, if I may use a slightly unparliamentary word.
The future of research at this Institute is indeed safe in their hands. I, of
course, cannot forget myoId friends of administrations-distributed among the
academic, the stores, the accounts, the security, the audit and the cash sections. I
hope I have not forgotten anyone. Their devotion to me has been most
exemplary.
Administration is an one man melody. It is a tune of harmony which has
to be sung by people acting together. if it is to be effective. If anything has
come out of it, quite a big chunk bas been due to the wholehearted and
excellent cooperation that I have been able to receive from my colleagues in the
administration.
1 always do like to remember my friends -the student pals of mine. As
with friends, we can surely say 'Tell me who yeur students are? I will tell you
what your Institution is.' I have not met a better and more intelligent
set of students any where. They have always done their best for their
Institute. I would only request them to follow knowledge like a sinking
star, for knowledge is the only instrument of production, which is not
subjected to the law of diminishing returns. I am sure you will take pride in
this Institute; for if we, the staff and students are not proud of our Institute,
the others will have neither the time nor the patience to be proud of our
Institute.
Before I conclude I must say this. Having missed the opportunity of
being enrolled as a student of this Institute in this birth of mine, it is my wish
that I should at least in my rebirth become a student of this Institute, preferably
without a Joint Entrance Examination. I also wish I must go through the hands
of the academic staff members who will all, I expect be given an opportunity
to become staff members again, of course in their own respective re-incarnations.
I know some of them like Dr Klein, Kuriacose or Khader do not believe in
re-incarnations. But it is my prayer to God that they should be given ODe
each, as a special case.

*

*

19

*

