Kumbhakarna - A Kambachitbram
by M. G. Srinivasan

K AMBAN has a prominent place amongst the immortal poets of the world. He is
honoured by the title" Kavichakravarti ". He was well versed in both the
classical languages of his age-Tamil and Sanskrit. He delved deep into the
great epic Ramayana in the original form by Sage Valmiki. And there arose a
desire in his heart that he should bring in the epic to the people of his land in
their tongue. The result was a wonderful creation.
"Ramavathara • '-for that was the name Kamban gave to his work-is not
just a faithful translation of Valmiki's work. Kamban embellished it with his
rich imagination wherever there was scope for elaboration. As one reads
through the pages of his verse, one gets the same feeling of wonder and joy as
when one reads Kalidasa, Shakespeare or Milton. The erea tive genius of these
men is something by which one cannot but be overawed.
As a sample of these epic-poetry, we will see a portion from its closing
canto. We will see the advent of Kumbhakarna.
The scene where we meet Kumbhakarna first is the "Hall of Counsels ..
in the Royal Palace of Lanka. Ravana has assembled all his lieutenants,
brothers and sons. He is still smarting from the disgrace of getting his beautiful
capital burnt down by a 'mere monkey', even though it has be~n restored to its
full splendour by the divine builder Maya. Now he seeks the opinion of his
counsellors on what should be done to avenge the damage wrought by the
monkey.
One by one his ministers and deputies rise and speak out. They all
generally agree that the two ill equipped men and the army of unarmed monkeys
cannot withstand even the slightest onslaught of the mighty Rakshasa army.
It is only over the mode of operation that they differ. Not one among them
harbours even the trace of a thought about defeat. Now comes Kumbhakarna's
turn. Though well known for the long spells of sleep he is most sober when he is
awake. He is the first among the counsellors to sharply criticise Ravana for
coveting another's wife. He also knows that the ~two weak men' are not mere
mortals and that wholesale annihilation of the Rakshasa if certain it battle ensues.
First he mocks his brother. "We will steal and confine another's wife. As the

4

25

