same time we would like to be admired by the worlds. We will talk with gusto
about honour but go about lusting. And added to these we are now afraid of the
inferior humankind. Sure is our victory."
But he also sees that Ravana has reached the point of no return.
Accordingl, he gives his conclusion:
You have committed an act unworthy of great men.
"You have brought disgrace to our clan. Yet if you return Sita now, we
will look ridiculous. Then the only course is to make war upon them and get
killed; it is a blameless course too."
4~6'b

Ulrililf,tiJ dlGLW4 ~QlJLD c:!IIGLuC8ulfU,
Ullfil6b 45JP 5lfili6ll JL.J!:)IC8QJth ; &l6Trdllll..06a.ITU
(JU*QJII IJ)lr4illrUl ilGL C8uf!ll1)IQJ!jI 5lflJlUl
&'*6U«iIIJlIf®ILGlr, IiGIl)I JlIJI615lfPLDth

(diD""'. - ePLDlJliJLD. Q5lf iJlD tiJ - QQJP~)
~t:.Lf 61'10"

Q,IlJIJta:J, @)6d .IlpSOIJl Q~W"1f1lJ
Ult:.Li6iP l..06l.i5@)IIl61ge!m- j}SIft IJIGe
&iL.IIJ.CBw (JIJIQ) ,,6lfhutiJdiD~tiJ c:!116Ui61suQ)6UiJ
UL.I9-@(JIJI&Il§6l.fth Ii- III ul,6l wllir eQ)·

With this advice, which is finally accepted inspite of Vidhishana's
remonstrances. Kumbhakarna retires to his bedchamber and commences along
spell of sleep which is going to be the last in his earthly life.
As Kumbhakarna lies in deep sleep thin~s move fast outside. Vibhishana
leaves Lanka when he finds that his efforts to save Ravana from following
the path of destruction are futile. He goes over to the other shore of the ocean
and seeks refuge in Sri Rama. The ocean is bridged by the Vanarasena. Angadha,
son of the mighty Vali, tells Ravana to return Sita and save himself. But he
chooses war. The two armies meet near Lanka and clash. Some mighty generals
of Ravana meet their death. Enraged, Ravana himself sets out to fight, only
to be defeated by Rama. As he stands before Rama deprived of all his weapons
and his crown. Rama asks him to go back, get himself armed and come to the
battle the next day. Ravana returns to his Palace, a very picture of grief.
dejection and disgrace. Mahodhara. his minister, consoles him and suggests that
Kumbhakarna be sent to the battle the next day. Ravana agrees to this proposal.
We meet Kumbhakarna now in his bed-chamber. A full battallion of
armed Rakshasas is sent to wake him up from his death-like sleep. After much
thrashing and beating Kumbhakarna awakens. Here at this juncture we come
a~ross a stanza well known for its sheer beauty of rhyme and metre,

26

