As they awaken Kumbhakarna the impatient Rakshasas sing:
LlD"'@i ~air lD @jthu c'lislrw L"'5. UlIfIU 6lIlrYl QlUeu..1h
illD"'@) &6dr" j;-D 5,..1\llDr ftg/D, JJrW6f C!RJblJrlfw
5jD"'C§ Ouub eiiJl3 q.tfit6 a;u) ~t61f .,51d(J1O
LtD"'@; 6lJITIlj pINe 6U1f1d 6DftBi,§t...;;tIiI [D"'@jfUtrw

(a;p6le - c'&lrjJ(!!J....)

Kumbbakarna wakes up. Immediately he eats a hearty meal and drinks pots of
wine in quantity proportional only to his heavy sleep. Here Kamban describes
the might, stature and size of this giant among the Rakshasas. Informed that
Ravana wishes to meet him. he proceeds to his brother's chamber. The brother.
meet and embrace. With his own hands Ravana begins to dress Kumbbakarna
with armour and otber weapons. Probably forgetful of what took place just
before he went to sleep. Kumbhakarna enquires of his brother what necessitated
bis action. Ravanar eplies "Two meo and an army of monkeys have come and
wrought havoc amidst our ranks. You go and crush them all"
A great sorrow swells up in Kumbhakarna's heart on hearin, this. No, be
is not afraid of fighting. He the hero who vanquished even Yama, the God of
Death in battle, sorrows because he foresees the perishing of his entire race and
the decline of their well earned glory. He exclaims: "Has the raging battle already
begun: Has not the chaste Janaki yet seen the end of her suffering: Has oar fame
that has reached earth, come to nought: Has the fall begun:
"Have not you returned Sita to Rama? Alas: you have given your enemies,
cause to be happy. Who can protect you when the fruit of all your good deeds has
been already 10st7 Can we - the embodiment of all that is Evil- even dream. to
conquer Rama, the embodiment of all that is good?
cc The mighty monkey who crosssed the ocean just with a loop is besdides
them. Sita has not yet been returned; and Rama still has deadly arrows like the
one that cut down the great VaIi; and here we are handy targets for them:

If you want to live return Sila and surrender yourself to Rama or collect
the entire Rakshasa force and attack the enemy."
4QD'(J~1r Q&Ucg6'LOIlt ""'a).~
trlrfillr. gjllUff

asp4-t...#

i)wtb 'lisiU;;~'Q)?B>(JU.J'"

QJlffllT(Y)W G!!)QJIU(!pW f1I6ITff j,~ 1U1f'*4 5

,p

OUIJ'6lIreJ_1I' 4C§J51i<J,.1f QUIrG lll iU5 1J'6UOUl

Here we can detect an apparent contradiction in Kumbhakama'.
behaviour. It was' himself who counselled earlier that fighting was the right

