course and to return Sita would be a humiliation. But now he is saddened at the
folly of Ravana in not sending back Sita to Rama.
The only explanation is that when danger knocks at his door Kumbhakama
is aware, with an intense awarness that was not before that his brother's fan is
certain. The overwhelming abundance oflove he has for his brother makes him
talk of the only possibJe way to prolong Ravana's life. Yet even now he finally
concludes that the other cause of mobilising the entire army and attacking the
enemy has to be resorted to.
Ravana is angered by Kumbhakarna's remarks. "Rise: Go back and sleep
advice. To bow and
serve the two men and the most of monkeys may suit you and your younger
brothers; but never shall I stoop to that state." So saying Ravana orders his own
chariot and armour to be brought.

tin the end of the worlds: I did not call you to ask for your

Here the poet shows us a glimpse of Kumbhakama's greatness. He
immediately reacts and says to his brother, "Bear with me, my lord, I will go and
fight. I do not say that I will return victorious. The invincible fate compells me
to go. If I die in the battle, at least then return Sita. Know that your son
Indrajith and your powerful army will all go to pieces struck by the sharp
arrows of Rama, King of Lanka: If Rama can overcome me it is certain that he
will vanquish you. Hence return Sita if I rail to come back and live long."
Thus Kumbhakarna takes leave of his brother never to meet him again.
He does not boast when he says that he is more valiant than Ravana. He is
one who has never know cowardliness or fear. Now will see him in the midst
of the battle in all his glory and valour.
Kumbhakarna enters the field of battle driving his magnificient chariot.
Rama observes his giantly proportions and much impressed asks Vibhishana
who he is. The good Vibhishana tells Rama, "He is the younler brother of
Ravana and elder brother to me. He goes by the name Kumbhakarna.
"When Lord Vishnu wakes np from his yoga-nidhra the asuras perish in
their thousands; and when Kumbhakarna wakes up from his long spell of sleep,
devas perish in their thousands. He has defeated Indra, the Lord of Devas,
and Yama, the God of death in battle. He has to his credit many a penance
and as a result is a recpient of divine boons.
"He wields a trident given to him by the Great God Siva, Nilakanta.
When' fighting with the devas he has never seen but their back as they. never
daring to face him, take to their heels.

