,iHe admonished Ravana thore than once ot the consequences ot stealing
Sita. But when he saw his brother would not return Sita and 'stood with his
honour rooted in dishonour'. He offered to fight for Ravana and has come
here now to meet his death."
Hearing this, Sugriva, King of the monkeys, suggests that Kumbhakarna be
induced to leave Ravana's side and brought over to Rama's fold. Vibhishana
carnes forward to accomplish this.
Here is one of the most touching scenes of the epic and Kamban haa
handled it in his expert way. He now reveals us the true nature of Kumbhakarna.
We now see his large-heartedness, his love towards both his brothers, his sense of
gratitude to one who brought him up, his immense courage and the indomitable
will to fight even when he stands at the door of death and above aU his
realization that Rama is the Supreme being that has come down to earth to
establish the moral law .
Kumbhakama is informed that his younger brother has come to meet
him. He is very happy to see him again. His love for Vibhisbana is as great
as that for Ravana. Vibhishana comes, falls at his brother's feet and pays
abeissance to his elder brether. Kumbhakarna embraces him heartily. He
enquires of his brother the reason for his coming all alone. Even before
Vibhishana begins to reply, a doubt appears in Kumbhakarna's mind. He
suspects that Vitbishana has come back to the Rakshasa fold, to fight on Ravaaa's
side. Contrary to what we expect he does not rejoice at the idea. He is sorry that
Vibhishana should return to the doomed ones leaving the compassionate Rama.
He begins advising Vibhishana thus. "Brother mine, you had gained a refuge
which it is difficult even for the devas to obtain. Why do you come back to us
who are only waiting for death? Will you take poison when you have nectar
besides?
"I was very happy that the honour of Pulasthya·s clanh as been saved by
you when you surrendered at the lotus feet of Rama. I am grieved to see you
back here amongst us. Rama and Lakshmana will not fail to protect you even at
the cost of their own lives. Why then should you come back as if still some
traits of our evil caste remains in you?
Dear Vibhisbana: When all the Raksbasas are killed, if you too are
among them, who is left here to perform our obsequal rites? Please go back
to Rama. If at all you should come back to Lanka. come as the King of
Lanka when the city is cleansed of all evil by the victorious Rama."
lt is now Vibhishana's turn to reply: At the very outset he dispells
Kumbhakarna's doubt and also makes his intentions clear. He begins by say-

