ittg that Rama will be pleased to receive Kumbhakarna if he will seek refuge
in him. He continues to say. "I will give you the kingdom ot Lanka which
Rama has promised me and will wait at your command for ever. At the same time
put an end to this cycle of birth and death by giving yourself up to Rama, the
Supreme one. There is no better course.
"Great men will not tolerate evil, even jf it be their beloved who commit
excess. In such a situation they renounce their sinful kinsfolk. Should I, your
junior of all the people, teach you, the learned one, of such rules of conduct?
Don't you know the precedent of great Parasurama, who did not hesitate even to
slay his own mother when she strayed from the path of right conduct?
"Is it not a pity that even the innocent ones should perish just because of
association with Ravana, the gUilty one" You tried your utmost to wean Ravana
away from evil, but failed. Now you are making yourself the laughing stock of
devas, your sworn enemies. What tan you achieve but be killed and thrown
into hell, if you persist in your present course?

"What a barren waste have you made of your life? Even though you have
conquered all the worlds by your might, you have not been fortunate enough
to rule over them. You have slept off all your youth into oblivion. And to
top all this you are going to sacrifice your life for an unworthy caule.
"If only you will come over to Rama, you will have the anathema of your
sleepiness cured, and will rule over all the worlds with pomp and glory. Then
the offsprings of yours, mine and Ravana will aU thrive. Even devas, your
deadly foes, will become our friends.

"Rama, the Lord of Vedas, himself took pity on you and out of compassion has sent to me. If you love me, if you hav.e regard for me, please
come with me and yield obeisance to Rama."
As Vibhishana waits for Kumbhakarna's reply, Kumbhakarna again
embraces Vibhishana and shedding copius tears of sorrow replies. All the
inducements Vibhishana offered do not have the slightest effect on Kumbhakarna's determination to fight for Ravana. A deep sense of obIigl!-tion
towards Ravana, the unthinkable impracticability of his serving under men who
will slay his brother and pride of his own prowess in battle have made him
unmovable. He tells Vibhishana, "After bringing me up with loving care all
through my life, Ravana has now sent me here to fight for him. I can never
desert him and go to Rama, with my mind set upon gaining a few more year of
this battle like life.
"But if you want to please me return to Rama. Returning to Rama befits
your nature as dying in battle befits mine. If one's sovereign could be brought

