over to the path of righteousness, well and good. But when it is not possible,
fighting for him and dying before his death are the only right things, one who
has enjoyed his hospitality can do.
"Will Ravana. the great hero who had lifted tbe Kallasa Mountain from
off its roots, enter into the abode of Yama, the defeated one, unescorted by his
brother when he dies? Vibhishana: I, who has overcome the very God of Death,
can never stand with my hands folded in supplication before men. You will see me
striking terror and spreading panic amidst the enemies' ranks."
Q),tbt9t.:~,. Q,llJfj

.@j<fll; j}®[6iJSil" Q,4141JtbCJIiIJ

QJtbdL.l.. 6Ip;IflUJIib Q'w(!p&ir LU!U Q5"._l.. UaD5t1DUJ QJlrlPl;~

dlwuh.:@P; 01-"U, Q.srrsRJrL... 4-@!g)IaDl.. filJlr9<161J"@ 8lW
~ulljL.@ 41JrrlP~a".UJ"'.J "PtIDlDlLf~ 41...'" Q.s".4I!bral..aTr.
(i)SIl - IAlJtb; AlJiltJt:.L.QfjtlUJtb - UUillDrah QUII'QbJi,'" IAlrau)

Kumbhakarna finds that Vibhishana is distressed to hear him speak thus.
He tries to console him, saying that everything has been predetermined and
himself is fated to die.
Now Vibhishana has also come to realize that nothing witl induce Kumbhakarna to leave Ravana. He finally takes leave of Kumbhakarna once and for
all with a last affectionate embrance and goes back to Rama. Kumbhakarna's
eyes dim with tears as he gazes on at this departing brother.
The batte has begun by now. The Rakshasas and the monkeys are
fighting fiercely. Kumbhakarna brings his chariot a.mongst the army of
monkeys and single handed he wrings havoc amidst them. He meets in battle
the valiant monkeys NUa and Angadha. Even these heroes could not withstand
his crushing blows. Then he confronts Hanuman. They throw huge blocks of
stones at each other. Hanuman himself withdraws from the combat realising
that only Rama can overcome him.
Kumbhakarna, drunk with victory, challenges Rama and Lakshmana to come
and restrain him. Meanwhile Lakshmana, with his bow and arrows, is striking
terror among the Rakshasas. Kumbbakarna. admiring Lakshmana's skill in
archery drives his chariot towards him. Hanuman comes forward to seat
Lakshmana on his shoulders while fighting with Kumbhakarna.
Now Lakshmana, brother of Rama, and Kumbhakama, brother of
Ravana, meet face to face. Even the devas assemble to witness their combat. At
this moment Kumbhakarna remembers that an old score is yet to be settled
between himself and Lakshmana. He recalls to his mind Surpanaka's plight.
Enrased, he swears, "As a result of our penances, a lovely sister was born amid"

31

