Kumbhakarna is terribly incensed like a wounded beast. Ferocious with
anger he begins crushing the monkey foes to his left and right.
Rama again confronts him. Rama destroys the entire battalion that Ravana
had sent again to support his brother. Now ~umbhakarna stands aU alone
facing Rama. Rama gives him a chance to go back home for the day and
return well armed. Unlike Ravana who previously accepted such an offer,
Kumbhakarna rejects it and he will fight alone to his end.
The mortal combat begins. One by one Rama destroys his opponent's
armour, trident and spear. As Kumbhakarna reaches for his sword Rama
cuts down his right arm. Kumbhakarna still wrings havoc amidst the monkeys
with his left hand. Rama cuts that too. With both his arms cut down Kumhakarna moves about crushing tbe monkeys with his legs. Rama severs his legs
also one by one and Kumbhakarna falls on the earth but is still active.
The undaunted Kumbhakarna in the extreme of his rage plueks off a huge
block of stone with his teeth and :flings it at Rama. Here the poet says that even
Rama's hands tremble as he releases his arrow that shatters the rock to pieces.
Suddenly Kumbhakarna realizes that he has come to the journey's end.
He calms down and a great sorrow comes over his heart. He is not afraid of
death even now but thinks only of Ravana's fate.
In his final moments Kumbbakarna recaIJs to his mind that Rama is not
a mere man and he begins to address him thus. "Lord: you are the scion coming
in the line oC great Sibi who out of compassion offered his flesh in order to save
a dove that took refuge in him. You please protect Vibhishana.
"0, Prime cause: God who has assumed the form of a King. Vibishana
though born amidst us knows not our evil ways but follows only the eternal laws
of Dharma. Please protect him who sought refuge in you.
"Ravana, ignorant of this his brother's worth and having no scruples will
try to destroy him by all possible means. Hence please see that Vibhishana is
never separated from you Lakshmana and Hanuman."
$'wrrtA> QJ;'f6 QJ&@j&~elO Q,I6!6wei)6UII'tA>
~"lJw"'fi> QJ;'~ 1I1IJ16lJ&g'j .!IuiJwrrtdr ,ulir~l1I!J
4fJWtrW fL&rW5DLt6t1itrf4r dlr*fL.(!!j4i Q.srrdJrL.,I.ll!J(8
(J6lJ/J1U1T ,il5Iir • .LiI LGIIT. _elDL.556ULb /Jlfa (J6lJar.,Jler<rar.

Sorrowfully conscious of his disfigurement lastly Kumbhakarna requests
Rama to cut off his head and throw it rar off into the ocean. Rama arants this
his final wish and puts an end to the agony of Kumbhakama with one arrow.
Thus a brave drama comes to an end.

*
s

*

•

