Ob! Darling
by K. Venkat.r.maai
SHANTHI r Can't you speak a single word to me? After all, what is the mistake on

my part? Had I offended you in any manner? If so can't you kindly xecuse
me? Why are you so indifferent to me? Won't you generously forgive me for
any wrong I may have done to you witbout my knowledge, and accept the
bouquet?
No; you will not speak. ] k.now you are not indifferent to me. My darling. you can not be indifferent to me. You are really generous to pardon me
even if I bad launcbed any offence on you. But you can not speak. I know the
reason. Shanthi! You had left this dirty world occupied by ungrateful hUman
beings, and proceeded to the abode of angels. But you suffer no loss. But can
you imagine how I suffer, bow my soul mourns because of separation. Away
from you I feel like a fish out of water. But I think you did not know tbat.
Otherwise you would not have left me in this miserable condition.
But now you can not explain to me anything, Sbanthi! beeawe you are
imprisoned in a frame.
Sbanthi! we lived together only for a very short period. Kala is really a
tyran't for he turns Kala Chakra, the wheel of time without caring for the feelings
of the humble human beings. Those pleasant days had run into the unrecoverable past.
Sbanthi ! You had influenced me in every sphere of my activity. You were
my guide. companion, adviser, colleague and everything. But for your inspiration
I would not have been able to complete my post-doctoral work in States. I hesitated even to apply for the scholarship. It was only after your tireless persuasion
that I applied for the scholarship merely to satisfy you. It is really a miracle that
I got the scholarship. Everyone said that you were the incarnation of Lakshmi
Herself, who entered our house to make our life prosperous.
For both of us separation was a difficult thing to assimilate. But you with
your extraordinary presence of mind willingly accepted our separation. God is
really merciless. His tool Fate plays its ruthless game only on meek people.
Hardly six months after marriage I went to th~ States leaving you in ou.r
mOlherland.

34

