Alas! I returned home after three years, after 'successfully completing my
work, merely to lose you for ever to the devil death. Oh God; You are mereiless.
You had given me a heart not made of flesh and containing, blood, but of steel
and containing molten lead. Otherwise, how am I still alive, after giving her as a
prey to your cruel deputy Yam a ? How is it that I have not yet embraced death
and am living still 'I
Shanthi! I wish that the 'plane which brought home had crashed on some
mountain, had fallen and sank in the sea, or crashlanded, killing me. Oh! my
better part, your eternal separation from me is unbearable. But ... but I am to
sustain the pricking fact that you. are. no ,more. Darling! my mother
lost her devoted daughter-in-law. She in all her letters tome had written nothing
but in praise of you.
I can not get peace of mind anywhere. Wherever I go, the pleasant memories
of the past haunt me; the bouse looks like a desert for me. Our bouse is always
neat. But you added to tbe neatness of our house liveliness yes; every inch of
our house said that it had the fortune of securing your attention. Now ... now...•
though everything is neat, but they lost their attraction. Before the roads of our
lives met, 1 was merely a log of wood; you tried to convert the log of wood into
an useful article. Now you, the carpenter stopped your work in the middle. Now
I am nothing but saw dust.
I am like a blind man, who. for a short period got vision and once again
lost his sight. When I think of those happy evenings in which we played chess or
undertook,evening walks, discussing all topics from a to z, I can nOl help but to
release a heavy sigh. Now I have nothing but your letters, to console me. Are
they mere letters? No; they are classics. But they increase my pain rather than
soothe me.
Even temple can not give me consolation. Whenever I go to the Temple
of Sri Rama. an incident flashes across my mind. ODe day we went to Sri Rama's
Temple. While returning J enquired "What was your prayer 'I". You replied
"My prayer was, is, will be that we must always be like those divine couple Rama
and Sita." I was not able to recognise the dramatic irony in what you said! Like
Sita, you were separated from me for a long time, and were not able to live
together for even two months after I returned from America. After Rajyapisheka,
Rama was compelled to part from Sita, and Sita plunged hereself into Mother
Earth. Alas! Shanthi! I was the person responsible for your premature death.
Oh God! the scooter accident which swallowed my Shanthi left me unhurt. Why
is it that I was left alone? Oh God! You had not been kind enough to allow
me to accompany my beloved Shanthi to the heavens. Shanthi! now you arc no
more.

