Swami Vivekananda
a great son of India
by P. Venkatesan
Vivekananda belongs to the immortal band of those ennobling men who
found God in the shrine of man "Where the tiUer is tilling the hard ground
and where the pathmaker is breaking stones". Like them he felt that the same
stream of life running through his veins day and night ran through the whole of
God's endless creation. Hence one with them he worked "in Sun and shower,
putting off his holy mantle" and casting aside even the thought of "deliverance".
For the knew where real deliverance was to be found-not in the panoply of
formal rununciation but in the embrace of a thousand bonds of duty and devotion
to service of his fellowmen. If today there still survive goodness and grace in the
world inspite of mounting racial, religious and idealogieal hatred and confiict we
owe it not a little to great men like Swami Vivekananda and his master
Sri Ramakrislma.
SWAMI

Even before the close of his scholastic career the sudden demise of his
father threw the burden of domestic responsibility on Narendra's young shoulders.
Faced with the problem of securing livelihood, forced by the abrupt indigence
and poverty, Narendranath turned almost an atheist and an agnostic. In his dark
moments of despair and dejection he wailed "H only there is a Being by the name
of God will all this happen to me? Is there really a God at all and has anyone
seen Him?"
At this hour of mental contlict, tossed between belief and disbelief,
agnosticism and atheism Narendranath found his way to his master Sri Ramakrishna
who with his exalted spiritual vision not only proved the existance of the
Almighty but literally conquered the semi-sceptic. Hence forth, Narendranath
slowly but critically appreciated and ultimately assimilated the message of his
mastei-the basic unity of aU seemingly diverse religions and the secret of
worshipping God in the service of man.
After the passing away of Sri Ramakrishna, Vivekananda started on his
peregrinations for a quest and discovery of India. He wandered incognito staff in
hand and clad in saffron robes throuah out the length and breadth of India from
37

