Kailas to lC.anyakumari, sometimes visitin& the dilapidated howels of the dowatrodden, sometimes resting in the marmoreal mansions of the Maharajas.
In his Sojourns Swamiji saw real India, discovered India-the povertystricken, the misery laden, the superstition - ridden India with her dumb millions
wallowing in wretchedness and ignorance, disease and despair, social injustice and
indifference.
Swamiji's heart bled. The sight of the suppressed and depressed folk
could not be shaken from his mind. He felt that it was a mockery and shame to
offer religion to the hungry stomach. In deep sorrow he moved on thinking of the
cause of India's decadence and degradation from her glorious past. Was her
dethronment from her high pedestal of spiritual leadership due to ignoring the
lessons of the past, or caused by their cultural stagnation? Perhaps the
ritualistic incrustations corroding the fundamental spiritual unity wrought their
downfall.
Towards the end of 1892 when he was at Cape Camorin, our land's end.
one night, he swam across the shark-infested strait from the mainland to an
island rock which now bears his name. And there, seated on the very last stone
of India he meditated for three days on the lot of his country. About him the
restless main tossed and stormed and in his mind there was even a greater tempest.
But it was only for a while. Soon a great calm descended on him making his
mind a mere chamber of silence, vibrant silence. And in tkat silence, he had the
vision of India with her spiritual diversity, her misery with her people completely
submerged and steeped in squalor, ignorance and poverty. Tears rolled down his
eyes. Clear-eyed Vivekananda saw why India had been thrown from the pinnacle
of Glory to the abyss of degradation. The nemises was brought about by their
neglect of her moorings in the past. That moment the simple monk was transformed to a great social reformer and master builder of his nation. Then and
there he dedicated his life to the miserable down-trodden masses and resolved to
consecrate himself to the task of their lot. He made to himself this sublime
utterance: "The work of a saint does not lie only in the uplift of his own soul.
It today lies in the uplift of the masses. To this task I shall wed • .
He visualised his work on a world-wide basis. India's wealth was however
spirirual; it only needed reinforcement with modern scientific ideas. Also it wa1i
India's duty to give her spiritual treasures to the nations of the west in return for
their material gifts.
The world Parliament of Religions held in Chicago in September 1893 gave
Swamiji the idea of a tour abroad. Some of his admirers suggested to him that he
should represent Hinduism at the Parliment but Swamiji had other. ideas of his

