own, to collect money for the material uplift of the masses. Whatever it was
Vivekananda obeyed the divine call.
In the great audience hall of the Parliament of religions he sat
unobtrusively and prayed while others displayed their oratory. His chance came
at last. It was the chance
of Hinduism and India at large,
of India despised by the world. As Swamiji rose his face shone with a glow
from within; ~beer sincerity, clear and transparent in its purity and universal
love, deep and abiding, overflowed from his heart as he uttered those five
memorable words that thrilled the world 'Sisters and brothers of America" The
bored audience were electrified. For no one before had spoken to them in
words that came out from the depths of his heart. His speech like a tongue
of flame fired the souls of the listening throng.

He presented Hinduism as the mother of all religions.

He told them how

"as the different streams having their sources in different places an mingle their
water in the sea, so the different paths which men' take through different
tendencies, various though they appear. crooked or straight all lead to God'
and hence of the folly of an religious bickerings. He wanted them to sweep
away the doctrinal differences of philosophical schools. He also told them
about the greatness of India's ancient heritage and of the present sufferings oC
her millions.
Overnight America in its height of materialism accepted his teachings.
The papers praised him as the greatest figure in the Parliament of religions and
admitted that, after hearing him, Americans saw how foolish it was to send
missionaries to his learned nation.
After about two years of stay in America Vivekananda visited England and
created in the minds of English-speaking races the love and sympathy which
India so direly needed and needs now.
Swamiji returned to India in February ) 893. This city of Madras bad
the first great honour of receiving him. Swamiji emphasied in his lectures here and
as in those from Colombo to Almora that "in India religion forms the centre, the
key-note of the whole music of national life'. But it was a man-making
character~nnob]jng Godward-taking religion be wanted us to follow. He
gave the twin ideals of strenghth and service to cherish. He then disclosed his
'plan of campaign' of starting institutions to train young men as preachers in
India and abroad.
Towards the close of 1898 Swamiji assembled at Calcutta his disciples. lay
and monastic, eastern and western and formed them into a order. Hailin& the.

39

