When I. I. T. is Petticoated
by T. N. Vijay ReddJ

EVER since the world began wom~n has always deceived

man, that is, till now.
Here, the young women of India are deceiving themselves in not joining
f.t.T. Madras in large and uncontrallable numbers. Why the romance of its six
hundred acres of sylvan landscape, lbe fragrance and perfume of its laboratories
and forests, the light adventure of travel on its highways, the daredevil of its
motor cyclists, the speed of its Volkswagens and omnibuses, the charm of its
avenues, the aromas from its cuisines, the bustle of its days and the secret of its
nights, the wisdom of its teachers, the brilliance of its students, and if none of
these appeal, the eligibility of its two thousand odd bachelors has not whetted the
imagination of the college going girls in our country, is beyond human prudence
but well within the I. Q. that a woman can scrape out. Is it because the girls of
today worry too much about their latest fashions, the tight sarees and high
blouses, and are oblivious to the real excellences of life? Or have they not heard of
this fascinating square mile? Or hl\ving heard, are there not any girls to aspire
to live in such a haven? Or having aspired, do they not possess the means
to attempt?
Where else does Troy Donabue turn up assiduously every Saturday night,
wearing his blood red cardigan and navy blue jeans and serenade an audience and
not a single ooh nor ah is heard? There is not a girl in India who will grant Troy
the salvation for which he has been singing his guts out ever since I came here.
Where else are imported drainpipes and second skin trousers worn along with
Jodhpuris and dbothis with such meticulous fastidiousness, only to be dirtied by
the layers of dust on the desks in the class room, only to be worn out on the
dhobi ghats of Velacheri, unseen by eyes that were meant to see them.
A great fallacy of mankind is :that it is called by that name for
after all it is the womankind which perpetuates mankind. Unlike amreba the
human race is bisexual. The implications of its being so are not just physiological,
Dor just concerned with the natural and apparent purpose of such a division of
species. The enthusiasm of the intellect, the calm of the spirit, the comfort and
completeness of one's mundane existence are immeasurably impeded if the
environment of habitation is not natural. The separation of the two sexes for
IlDy len8th of time in any pocket of humanity is unnatural. The absence of one of
42

