them creates, in the habits, in the mentality, in the thoughts and words of the othet
a lacuna not easily definable, not immediately obvious. The.grown ups, most ~f
them, think that men students clamour for the presence of the fairer sex in their
vicinity only to whistle at them, onty to pose for them; even if they should. why
not?
Men or women, living by themselves, without normal contact with the
other are shut off to certain instincts, to certain topics of conversation, to certain
actions and reactions, to certain comedies and tragedies, all adding up to a set ()f
vcry interesting and enriching experiences in that period of life. By and large, as
Higgins says we are a magnificient sex, even a fantastic sex, but we are so only
because there is another sex to be compared to. But in I. I. T. we can neither
compare nor contrast nor outshine another sex for we make the only one that
roams the woods of I. I. T. Bob Hope writes from Alaska tbat the O. l.s there
were so hard up for dames that one G. I. was going steady with his tattoo. Now.
we in I. I. T. being Indians arc more fatalistic, being Itudents' of science
improvise and innovate, beiDg the products of the periodical system (the most
benign third degree in the world) suffer the insufferable stOically. Not that there
are no weakenings among them. Every Saturday caravans set out by foot, by two
wheelers and by four wheelers to varied destinations; but tben, all to one
destination, to seek delight in that scent, that sound. that touch.
I wonder what the students of I. I. T. will be called' when (itt rdspdnse t6
this exposi girls from all nooks of India, in aU shades, in aU leBgths, weights',
etc., rush to I. T. T. as insects rush to 1i~bt, with the difference that they will b~
rushing not towards self-immolation like the iitsects but into a state of exaltid!
existence. The entity '1. 1. Tians' will have to be changed be-cause the beings
from Mars are called 'Martians' in comic books and they have only one sex.
Since tbe male population will be in the minority, we could be called "1. I. Teves)'
or'!. I. Tonorinas' (form senorina) and the degree offered could not remltiri'
Bachelor of Technology. I don't envy the Senat~, trying to conciliate tht
uncompromisable. I only hope they will keep in mind the predicament they will
put our pop singers, the B. Techs in. if B. Tech. was cbanged to something not
nearly masculine in its implication. Some protective measures would have to be
taken in the interests of the minority male phase. Places should be reserved for
them in buses. class rooms etc., and in the sympathies and charities of those in a
position to dispense them, lecturers for example. A limit should placed on the
percentage utilization of spare time(?) for cramming, because a girl can cram in
half an hour what a boy takes an bour to understand. What a girl understands in
one hour is negligible. A limit should be enforced on the number of pages
1illcd in exams and the interspacina of words and sentences sbould be
43

