standardised and listed in DIN tables. The last measure is necessary because
the girls arc great ones for spinning long and poignat yarns -and some of our
younger examiners untrained in these matters. may ran for them.
With the changing tastes and aptitude of the studentship, minor changes
in the syllabi are imminent. Embroidery and knitting will be offered as' an
alternative to those third and fourth year electricals who find circuits confusing.
The basic principles underlying these subjects are afteraU identical. The present
staff, it seems, can cope with any such slight changes in the subjects they teach.
The chemicals will drop 'process equipment design' and take up a lab. based
study of 'The uses and abuses of cosmetics and deodorants.' The electricals
will continue with measurements but the subject will never be the same again.
The aeronautics department will allot out of the existing resources, the space, time
and know·how for the training of high tensile strength air hostesses for service
under Indian conditions. The newly acquired subsonic windtunnel may prove
inadequate to test these ultrasonic air sirens. The recently completed steam lab.
will undertake research 011 'The production of non-scalding steam for use in
Turkish baths.' Experts from France and Japan may be needed. The humanities
department will organize seminars on such topics as "The emotional and social
problems involved in cutting a plum cake into an odd number of pieces." The
N. C. C. building will be taken over by the Y. W. C. A •.
1 am already feeling nostalgic about the good old days when I. I. T.
ate and slept and talked and lived stag, when one could utter a four uttered
banality and not feel guilty of leaving behind a dozen blushed faces, when
one could whlstle in bliss into free air and not be mistaken for a Romeo,
when one could walk into tbe open air theater in a three week new night suit
and not worry about attracting any opinions or looks that mattered. Gone are the
days when a haircut was needed only when the dandruff became too heavy to
bear. when a Silver Gillette could be made to last well through a term, when one
bath could keep you acceptable in society through half a week. Gone or the days
of bed to classroom via breakfast in four and a half minutes.

III

*

44

*

