Random Reflections
by V. J. I.. Asirvatbam

HELLO folkS! This 'is Job the Dreamer wishing you all a good day. The
programme is new and fantastic and is entitled "Random Reflections," the out
come of a series of drea1lls. The other day I was trying to remember some Metallurgy and all that I could get in focus was a long tube and at the other end satof all people - Marconi, and he happened to be tampering with something. Well
this was something to arouse my curiosity and I was all at once swept into the
world of wireless. Radios to the right of me. TV sets to the left. transistors of
all magnitudes and shapes. Well, this made me think next of the benefits the
world has received on account of the use of wireless. Drifting back to reality
you hear.
''There was an old woman who swallowed a fly
I don't know why she swallowed the fly
'Perhaps she'll die".
or "Mashed Potatoes" and "Landings on the moon". Mashed Potatoes makes you
think of the varie~y. of potatoes that exist and what a lot they mean to the world's
hungry millions. And regarding landings on the moon I guess the boys are right.
Already Luna IX has achieved a 50 ft •. landing on the moon and if 1 read
right there are indications of gold streaks on the moon's surface. The moon is
still and has been through the ages a thing of mystery. Were we to look at the
moon on a rull~moon night, we would see that it was not for fun that lunar
crafts were developed. And after all the moon is but a tiny speck in the universe.
Have you ever looked up on a summer night at the vast mantle of space glittering.
with so many myriad s,tarss. And have you never felt how small man seems? And
does it not indicate to you that there is some strange power "that turns the handle
of this idle show?" And while we are still in this 'moony' state how wonderful
it is to hear that men are able to travel in space and that one day in the near
future rocket-ships will replace aeroplanes.
And talking .of aeropla~~s, we definitely have come a long way from Wilbur
and Orville Wrigbt's alanes to supIOrsonic jets alld multistage rockets.

Now tommg back to mashed PQtatoes, we find 'that it is quite a common
dish. An4 I ani 'sute 'any chef will know of umpteen methods to prepare mashed

4S

