potatoes, and potatoes are generaliy round or eiliptical. This makes me think
of all things of tbis particular sbape. The first picture that flashes before me is the
'0' of Giotto and (I beg your pardon) - the new hit in town: OSS 117. And the
endless assortment of circles and spberes, bowls and balls and globes.
Balls can be used in ever so many ways. You hear P.S.K. shouting out ''lie's bowled" and you picture a green patcb of grass and cricket teams and
of course the red cricket ball. Soccer, golf, hockey, table tennis are games in
which a ball is used.
Bowls can always take up your time- r guess you know when Not that I
am asking you to go to a porcelain shop or a government museum and peer at
the wonderful collection of bowls. You just break a bowl accidentally and try
collecting the broken pieces. And bowls do remind us of our ever present poverty
problem. Hundreds and hundreds roam about the streets begging for a few paise.
And globes do take up our attention for sometime. There in the c]assroom, the teacher explains to the students the wonderful world we live in. What
a varity of races, colours and creeds. And one of the blessings of the modem age
is that transport is fast and efficient thus enabling people from different parts of
the globe to visit and exchange ideas and gifts with each other. We in India have
the good fortune to meet so many kinds of people who help us in some way to
solve so many of the problems which confront us.
And this naturally leads us next to consider the wonderful phenomenon of
the earth's rotation on its own axis and next its revolution around the Sun. What
master-minded people like Kepler must have had in order to p)~t out the course of
the earth's rotation so very long ago. And does this not next lead us to consider
that fact that there is so much of space in the universe us to allow
systems like ours to operate without the fear of collisions. Mummy catches
Susan gazing happiiy int@ the sky with a mysterious look onher face .
.. What happened? asks mother. And Susan replies, .. I saw a shooting
star and believe it or not, I was thinking of daffodiJs". " Lucky girl, I do hope
you get your wish granted says Mother. And there superstition still holds
mankind in chains even though we profess to have reached a higher level in
civilization.
Peering into the earliest mists of time we find the first men cowering and
hiding Crom the enveloping clouds of superstition and ignorance. Religion,
customs, totems and spells arise in an endeavour to ward off the strange things
that occur. Time flows on and the fish reaches up to breathe. This is the case
today. Science has helped a great deal to overcome traditional myths and
superstitions.

