What a lot we owe to ameRce and technology. If not for scie~ce were
would we find trains, motor-cars, trams, aeroplanes, motor-bikes and the age-old
push-cart? Where would we be able to manufacture pins, needles, components
of various machines in mass production? And would we ever have heard of
condensers. diodes, triodes, cathode rays and what not? And electronic
computers and giant cranes and ships and submarines? And who would have
heard of Laser beams, radium. atomic energy, nuclear fission, liquid fuel,
Iodrell Bank, Cape Kennedy, radar, power-stationl and ever so many things?
And modern medicine has come a long way from sawing off infected limbs
and mumbo jumbo spells to anresthetics, disinfectants, surgery and has JOade
great headway in the struggle against diseases like cancer and leprosy which
have plagued man ever since he fell into the water and got a cold or could not
hunt his food and died of malnutrition and starvation. And the wonderful new
branches like biochemistry and others which go into the very structure of life
and will soon be able to predict the sex of a child in a mother's womb.
Science has helped also in a great measure to further education. Illiteracy
has long been the cause of the dead end of certain civilizations and now we
can with pride read and write and express ourselves and understand each other
in a common language. And languages have developed from the sign language
of the Red Indians and the early Aryans to the great languages of to-dayChinese. English, Hindustani, Cerman, French and so on. We in India have
certainly progressed from open-air classes under trees to lectures in fine modem
buildings in his institutes.
I fancy I hear music, and you can be sure it is dear old Gopal playing his
accordian to the tune" All I want is a room somewhere" and what's more,
over and over again non-stop for two hours at a stretch. I am sure that you
will agree that it is the zenith of bliss to live in our wing in Godavari
Hostel.
All at once, I see before me a whole succession of poets, painters, musicians
andpoIiticians. The first is a very short mao. H-e must be either Lal Bahadur
Shastri or Winston Churchill. What great parts both these men have played
when their countries needed them most! And I next have in focus Galileo and
his telescope. And Copernicus and Tycho Brake and Isaac Newton spiv by.
Abraham Lincoln holds a black Negro slave by the hand and behind him rages
the Battle of Gettysburg. Nelson and Napoleon pass by on the Trafalgar and
the island of St. Helena. And there emerge Bismark and Garibaldi and Lenin
and Trotsky. and vanishing are Tzars and feudal Kingdoms. And I see a very
black picture next and agony and destruction in the wake and the Serpent of

47

