Time: 5-35 p.m.

Place: The TaBor'.
A rcd-faced fellow with one of his pants shorter than the others snaps at
the tailor: 'What have you done to my pants 1 ] asked you to make the bottom
fourteen and you have made it seventeen l'
e That's

all right lir, I'll make it O. K. in a minute.'

(So saying he tugs at the stitches along the seams'and the pants come
apart.) In exactly eight minutes he has made the necessary alteration but the
customer is none too pleased with the fast work for he suddenly fiares up.
shouting, 'Who asked you to make pleats on my pants? I want them pleatless.·
The imperturbable tailor offers to de-pleat the paots and does so incredibyl
fast. Still not satisfied, the customer departs with a grunt, numbling (quite
audibly) to himself, 'Dash it 1 I shall ask Deen (the alteration specialist at
Velacheri) to alter the paots.'

Time: 5-55 p. m.
Place: Adyar Bakery
A bloke looking like a still from an old gangster film of the forties,
comes in. He is perspiring profusely aDd wearing paots so tight, that, had
they been just a wee bit tighter they would have been inside him, and makes
his way to the ice. box and pulls out bottle after bottle until he has found his
particular brand of drink. In the process he causes a few ounces of butter to
melt by mere application of force. The proprietor in total disagreement that
IITians will be I1Tians shouts, 'Can't you take out a bottle without destroying my
entire stock of butter l'
The reCipient of this rebuke not too confident of matching wits with the
fellow, remarks in an aside to his friend (a slightly magnified version of himself):
, This dashed so and so doesn't know how to stack his stuff and yells at
us. Let's sabotage him one day, what say l'

•

•

•

Thus you see everywhere in the Shopping Centre, the customer adopts a
holier-than-thou attitude towards the shop owners and this status quo will be
maintained because the latter doesn't dare get on the wrong side of the customer,
or so the average IITian fondly believes.

*

*
so

*

