In Defence of the Punster
by G. Govindarajan
or "quibbling" as it is called, has always been dubbed as the
meanest form of wit". Some of the Virtuosi of the 16th and 17th centuries
opened that enly the worst person would resort to punning. If by the application
"worst" is meant the most far fetched and startling then many puns suit the
superlative to a T. It is neceasarily assumed that the term "worst persons" does
not refer to incondite vagabonds and ruffians, upon whom tbe "toga virilis"
never sits gracefully.
Thomas Hood was a postmaster in this "genteel" form of humour. It
was his forte and few scholars of bis age bad any bon mots for him. This
has more out of sheer spite and the traditional green eyed monster oalled
jealousy than as if to ward off derogation of the Kings English.
The pun has been described as a pistol let off at the ear rather than
a feather to tickle tbe intellect. This, in one sense, is time because a load
report is certainly needed to jerk into activity tbe docile but viturperative
critic who blurs ten sides of a pun trying to denounce the inunitable
punster.
pUNNING

The pun, by itself, is sometbing more exquisite and subtler than the
in fiated finical rhapsodies of most writers. There is much more wit and humour
in the pun than in a barrel full of monkeys. An Oxford Scholar, meeting a
porter who was carrying a hare through the streets, accords him with this
extraordinary question "Prither. friend, is it thy own hare or a wig?" The pun,
as is quite evident, is upon the word "have". Imagine the scene as it-would have
transpired-tbe put inquiring look of tbe Oxford Scholar. the desponding looks
of the porter as he scratches his head to find a re;lson why such a scion of learned
gentry should condescend to speak to him-Michelangelo would have captured
the spirit on the canvas.
"No noose is good news" cackled the condemned jester as the hangman's
rope descended upon his neck. This story is probably known to you all. An
assurance-from the jester tbat he would resort to punching no more wonld have
prevented his treading the path to the point of no return. Yet the split second
repartee of tile jester shows his indomitable spirit. He dies with a pun on his
lips. Tho pun is so whimsical, yet so pertineat but unfortunately fatal.

