The pun is tar removed (rom the labyrinthine Windings of monotonous
after dinner speakers-those nibbling pickpockets of your patience as well as
your time. There is the famous pun of the Sextar. The person told the sexton
and the sexton toU'd the bell. The pun is requisitety good, deplorably bad and so
braken in its pretentions that it is due to this contrasted ludicrousness that
makes the pun a classic. The affrontive quality of the primitive inquiry is
invidiously transferred to the derivative in the implied satire.
Critics avow that puns are over exaggerated and it essentially is a
question of hUnting and winding it through all possible ambages of similar
sounds. They feel that the punster ought to be repressed. 'Suffiiandimus erats,'
as Augustus put it. The punster does not loose his unique quality even in the
battle field. The great Napoleon Bonaparte was defeated in the battle of
Waterloo. One of his generals remarked to him on the outcome of the battle
"Napoleon, born a parti." This means in French, Napoleon, good has left. The
pun on the conquerors name awes us. The gravity of the situation. the
ignominious defeat starring the French soldiers do not appeal to the general
whose laux pas comes misplaced humour.
"An ambassador is a man who lies abroad for the good of his country:'
This well known quotation of Samuel Johnson is an example of a pun which
wounds. It casts aspersions on the ability on the diplomat. During Samuel
Johnson's time, there was a man called Else who let out rooms at exorbitant
rents. One such room was the meeting place of the scholars in Johnson's time.,
Johnson hearing of the landlord's advice accosted. him and said "you are a
cheat." The landlord protested but Samuel Johnson added insult to injuvy by
saying. "I once again say that you are a cheat, a hypocratic, swindler and a
blood sucking leech. You are nothing else." The pun lies in the name of the
landlord, "Elsc."
Punsters appear to be the black sheep of the English literary stock. At
parties, the much (un) sought after.dinner.speaker adopting 8 "more sinned
againg than sinning aJtitude" tries to tick off his adversarie:s, namely the
punning humanitarians, with cut Astraean allusions. A rather puffed-up literacy
type seeing a punster in a party wanted to humiliate him in presence of the
other social higher ups. He went to the punster and said, "1 have heard
stories about your punning ability. Can you pun any word J suggest?"
The notorious punster pained him with this rejoinder. "Pon your word,
I will.tt
He had seized upon the word "upen" and punned it. It was clearly the
case of the "biter bit".

•

•

.'

