The Royal Tiger from Pataudi
by R. Natarajan, I.A.S.

AT a time when the very

atmosphere is stuffily suffused with republican ideas
and socialism is the first fashion, it has been given to the Nawab of
Pataudi, nicknamed the II Tiger" for his lightning reflexes and lethal sinuousness on the field, to restore regality to Indian cricket. Time was when Indian
cricket was synonymous with royalty-a game hallowed by incandescent names
such as Prince Ranjitsinhji, the Nawab of Pataudi (Sr,) and Prince Duleepsinhji.
The native states were the classic cradle of Indian cricket. The Maharaja of
Patiala and the Jam Saheb of Nawanagar brought out the leading lights of
English and Australian cricket to the country while the Maharajkumar of
Vizianagaram skippered the Indian team to England in 1936. True to royal
patronage, Indian cricket had an aristocratic strain-Mushtaq, Amarnath
or Amar Singh thought of even Test cricket as a great game where gallantry
had a place but not as a war of attrition where aggression bore the accent.
When they were on the field, it was the Knights of the Round Table
jousting, with jests aplenty but no jealousy.
But these ugly days of utilitarianism and leaden levelling down hardly
provide the atmosphere for such a sensitive plant as Indian cricket to prosper.
Orace and style have bowed out of the cricket stage and in their place itand
supreme, statistics and records. Style is not the man and it is only the number
of runs on the score board that matter. If democracy is counting of heads,
batsm~nship is counting of runs. Even Umrigar was utilitarian.
It was at such a time of cricket poverty that Mansur Ali, the Nawab of
Pataudi, leapt on to the Indian scene like a royal tiger. His father, the late
Nawab Iftikar Ali Khan of Pataudi, had imbibed the ethereal elegance of Frank
Wolley, his mentor, and scored a century on his first appearance for England
against Australia. In the few years thal were given to him to spend in the
cause of Indian cricket, he endowed it with authority and an English sense of
the game. But his greatest contribution to Jndian cricket was his son, Mansur•

. Mansur succeeded to the captaincy of the National eleven by right as he
did to the Pataudi gadi. But even before that, he had sounded the battle bugle
8

S7

