and charged Dexter's Englishmen with an avid, audacious century in the fifth
test at Madras. Lock and Allen, Smith and Knight all bore the brunt of
Pataudi's bludgeoning blade. His breathtaking century did, indeed, set the
pace for India's magnificent win over England under the captaincy of
Contractor.
He did not fulfil all his promise when he accompanied Contractor's
ill-fated team to the West Indies. But, then, none fulfilled himself on the
Carribean circuit except, perhaps, Durrani.
But when Mike Smith and his M.C.C. team came over to India, Pataudi
becamc the skipper. He celebrated his captaincy with a capping double century
at Delhi, a truly memorable knock, studded with shots scintillating like shooting
stars, to borrow an expression from Neville Cardus. The Test series was
drawn but Pataudi had done his brilliant bit for enlivening it.
Bobby Simpson found Pataudi and his band in a magnificientIy militant
mood, when the Australians toured next. In the first test at Madras, India
actually, led Australia on the first innings, thanks to Pataudi's coruscant century
though they let the match slip through their fingers subsequently. But at
Bombay when the bugle sounded again in the second Test, Pataudi made no
mistake. Like Horatius. he defended the bridge and paved the way for victory
which Borde clinched. Calcutta also brought out the best in Pataudi though it
was rained off ultimately.
Amidst all these stately scores and scenic triumphs, there is something
that has always stood out about Pataudi. As captain, he brought a fresh and
uninhibited approach to the game and took the slightest gamble, if only to
infuse some spirit and the dash of a derring- do to the languishing ·game of
today.
As a fielder at cover point, he is a marvel. With the silken sinuousness of
a tiger, he used to pounce on every ball with precision and despatch it to the
wicket-keeper post haste, with his best compliments. His low-trajectory throw
was unerring, while no batsman could give a catch to him and survive the
story.
But it is as a batsman tbat Pataudi reigns supreme. He bestrides the
Indian cricketing scene like a Colossus. For a slight, youthful player with only
one eye functioning, the vigour and power of his stroke play are beyond
imagination. His slrokes are propelled as if from a higb powered rocket; the
noise is thunderous and ODe gets the impreslion that the Son of Jupiter i. on

58

