Protection to an accused
under the Constitution
by S. Srikut

IT is invariably common with a lay man on the street to dub any person who is
alleged to have committed a particular offence as the perpetrator of it and the
person indicted for murder is oftener than not addressed as a 'murderer' long
before the trial takes place or arguments heard, much less the judgment delivered'
In law, however, he is only an 'accused person' and it will always be presumed
that he is innocent until the contrary is proved beyond all reasonable doubt by the
prosecution; and it is its duty to prove the mens rea and the actus reus or the guilty
intention and the guilty act required for a particular crime, and this is the golden
thread seen throughout the web of criminal jurisprudence. Such an accused
person is afforded under the Constitution certain fundamental rights and this
article enumerates what those rights are, and the circumstances in which and the
conditions whereby they could be availed of by the accused.
To quote Article 20 of the Constitution ipsissima verba: "No person shall
be convicted of any offence except for violation of a law in force at the time of
the commission of the act charged as an offence, nor be subjected to a penalty
greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the
time of commission of the offence; 2. No person shall be prosecuted and punished
for the same offence more than once and 3. No person accused of any offence
shall b, compelled to be a witness against himself".
The right secured by clause (I) just quoted corresponds to the provis ons
against ex post facto laws of the United States Constitution which declares in substance that no ex post facto laws shall be passed. An ex post facto law is a law which
comes into operation after the ofrence has been committed and which alters the
situation of the accused to his disadvantage. It is a law which voided and punished
what had been lawful when done. An act that was innocent when done cannot be
made criminal by a subsequent legislation; or a lesser crime when done cannot be
made graver and more aggravated by a subsequent enactment; or the punishment
awarded to an offence prior to legislation cannot be enhanced by an Ordinance
passed after the commission of that offence. A law, therefor~, under this provision, cannot be applied to facts which are prior in date to the law itself. What
60

