is prohibited here is conviction and sentence under In ex post facto law and not
the trial of the offence. A procedure for trial different from the one at the time
of the commission of the offence or a court different from the one at the time at
which the offence was committed cannot be held unconstitutional.
To illustrate, if a particular offence that carried a sentence of, say, twe
years' rigorous imprisonment under the penal laws of a state when passed, is
considered graver and consequently the State Legislature enhances the punishment
to, say, five yean, the accused indicted of the offence under the old laws would
not be liable to the increased penalty, as he gets protected under this Article. A
law that operates retrospectively to the advantage of the accused does not, however, come within the prohibition of this clause.
In a Calcutta case, a law of 1946 provided for penalty for taking premium
on house rent. Under the 1950 law, a prosecution was provided for the offence.
It was held that the land lord could not be prosecuted under the legislation passed
in 1950 for the premium taken by him while the law of 1946 was actually in
force.
The incorporation of this provision in the Constitution is in consonance
with the fundamental principle of natural justice that the law shall be known
bef~re an individual is to suffer for its infraction. "There can be no doubt", observed Justice Jagannadhadas in a Supreme Court case, '<as to the paramount
importance of the principle that ex post facto laws which retrospectively create
offences and punish them are bad as being highly inequitable and unjust."
The second constitutional protection that an accused enjoys is that he will
not be prosecuted and punished for the same'offence more than once. This is the
plea of Autre fois- Convict (or formerly convicted) as known to the British
jurisprudence or the plea of 'Double Jeopardy' as known to the United StatesConstitution. This is grounded OD the common law maxim "Nemo debet bis
vexari', meanin, that no one shall be .twice vexed for the same cause. The
American Consti~ution postulates that no person shall be subject for the same
offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb. The enunciation of this
provision is not something new to India, as this principle has already been recognised and enacted in the General Clauses Act and in the Criminal Procedure Code,
which, in fact, formed the background of this fundamental guarantee to an accustd
under the Constitution. To claim protection under this clause, there should
have been not only a prosecution, but' punishment in the mst instance in order
to . operate as a bat to a ·second prosecution and punishment for the same
offence. Further, the prosecution aIld'punishment Should have been before a Court
of Jaw of competent jurisdicti~n-or-a judicial tribuna), an'd mere administrative'
61

