inql.\lries and departmental punishments will Dot deter action bemg taken bofote
the law courts for the same offence.
In a Supreme Court case, an les Officer, by accepting illegal gratifications
and valuable things, showed some undue favours to certain companies in the
matter of issue of import and eAport licences that were issued on his recommend..
ations and thus abused his position as a puplic servant in the discharge of his
duties. The matter was inquired into under the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act
and the Officer was eventually dismissed. Subsequently he was charge-sheeted for
offences under the Indian Penal Code dnd the Prevention of Corruption Act. The
accused pleaded 'double jeopardy' as he had already been punished by being
dismissed from service. The plea was repelled and it was held that a dismissal
resulting from an inquiry under the Public Servants (Inquires) Act was not
prosecution and punishment.

In another interesting case, the accused, an Indian, on arrival at the Santa
Cruz air port in Bombay, failed to declare that be had brought in gold with him.
But on search it was found that he was carrying lold in contravention of the
government notification. The Customs authorities thereupon took action against
him under the Sea Customs Act and confiscated the contraband. Sometime later,
a complaiat was filed in the court of the Chief Presidency Magistrate. Bombay,
charging the accused with having committed an offence under the Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act. Rejecting the plea of duplicated prosecution and
punishment, the Court held that the Sea Customs Authority was not a judicial
tribunal and the adjudging of confiscation or the increased rate of duty or penalty
under the provisions of the Sea Customs Act did not constitute a judgment or
erder of a court or a judicial tribunal necessary for the purpose of supporting
the plea of double jeopardy. The proceedings before the Sea Customs
Authorities were not 'prosecution'. nor did the order of confiscation constitute
a punishment inflicted by a court or a judicial tribunal on the accused.
In a Calcutta case, a land lord was fined by the Rent Controller for his
illegal act of not allowing the tenant to use a privy and a water tap. A subsequnt
prosecution in a criminal court under the Rent Control Act on the same facts was
held to be ultra vires of tbe constitutional safcJU&rd afforded to an accused
under Art. 20 (2).

Two or more distinct offences in a single transaction can, however, be tried
and punished separately and there is no constitutional taboo for this. Where an
accused was found in possession of a stolcp revolver without licence, it was held
that there was no leaal bar to his being char.ed and convicted for two offences,

