ODe under the Penal Code and the other under the Arms Act, as tbe offences were
distinct and separate.
The third fundamental right guaranteed to an accused is based on the old
common law maxim that no man is bound to accuse himself. This is what is known
under the United States Constitution as the prohibition against self-incrimination
or testimonial compulsion. An accused can fall back upon this privileae if as a
witness he is cross-examined to reveal incredibility and infamy and it will be well
within his rights to refuse to answer that which tends to incriminate him. The two
requisites for claiming protection under this constit\1tional right are: (i) tbe
individual concerned must be a person accused of an offence and (ii) he must be
compelled to be a witness against himself. In a case where the accused was called
upon to produce the money which he was alleged to have offered as a bribe to the
Police Officer for purposes of identification of money, it was held that there was
no testimonial compulsion exercised on the person. because he could have refused
to comply with the demand of the police officer investigating the case.
In another Supreme Court Case, an organised attempt was made from the
inception of a company to embezzle its funds and to declare it to be running OD
loss. The share-holders were cOBcealed of the true state of affairs of the Company
by false accounts with fictitious entries and false baJance sheets being submitted to
them. Various dishonest and fraudulent transactions were disclosed. A warrant
was issued for search and seizure of the voluminous mass of fictitious records and
files. The question arose whether the search warrant was unconstitutional and
hence illegal on the ground that in effect it was tantamount to compelled
production of evidence. This contention of the accused was overruled for
the reason that the documents were siezed not on account of any compulsian
used on the accused person.
Where a woman was vaginally examined by a lady doctor with the
reluctant consent of the woman and upen examination it was found that she
had very recently given birth to a child and subsequently the woman admitted to
the doctor that she did so give birth to a child and that she threw the new born
baby through the ventilator. the evidence of the doctor who examined the women
as the result of her examination was held to be admissible against the woman
in her trial under the Penal Cede for murder and was not hit by Art. 20 (3)
since the woman at the time of the examination by the doetor was not accu$ed
of any offence.
In a Madras case, a notice to an accused to show cause against search
of his premises for certain incriminating documents was held to be an indirect
way of compellinl an accused to produce the documents and that the notice

63

