express his thoughts, opens out his mouth in a prodigious yawn. The procell
goes on until finally any outsider who happens to enter the class room is amazed
at the scene, wondering why a single student put on a platform should have so
many lecturers talking to him at the same time. As this goes on inside the
class room, another group of finite beings saunters up along the corridor for the
simple reason they had a hour free. To them what goes on inside a class
room is far less interesting than the most recent expose on a popular film star,
which they are discussing. Of course everybody tries to keep his voice low,
but since everybody tries to speak at the same time the effect is cumulative and
electric. For no reason, one of them goes gay and whistles, redler out or tune,
a well known hit. As the group just passes by, tbe people inside tbe class room
forget their differences and turn to look in awe and admiration. But that i.
just a passing phase, for they begin all over again. Now, if only you try to
talk of obligations here, you surely will not get anywhere. Frayed tempers also
are definitely of no use in such a context and are certain to worsen the situation.
Mter some time you just learn to Jive with these things.
The set-up is somewhat different in anyone our music concerts. The
audience is a very typical group of finite beings. There are those who are drawn
to· the performance by the sheer musical talent of the singer. Then there are
also others. Customs merely demanded their presence at the concert. They
come usually from the higher social strata. It is all the same for these beings
whether the musician is talented or it is somebody making his debut. To them
nods and smiles and shaking hands with acquaintances are far more important
than the fare served. The final cruel touch comes of course, when some VIP,
whose presence again custom demanded, makes his appearance, invariably late
to the performance. All these beings stand up in utter reverence, greet him
with folded hands and forced grins forgetting for the moment the effect they
produce on the performer as well as on those who are there to appreciate the
fare offered. The VIP, for his part, knows full well that only by coming late,
be will get such standing attention in a sitting audience. Then again there are·
those, whQ bring along their kids, for is it not cruel to leave the tiny tots at
home, when they themselves are out for enjoyment? Now, any group of kids
is certainly gregarious. They lose little time in starting their antics, with the
result that their caretakers prefer to enjoy this side show rather than the perfor.
mance itself. Those who are really listening or the obligations to them are totally
forgotten. Then there is the late comer to the performance who is also very
individualistic in his approach towards the whole. He walks in, still very much
on the lookout for the best seat in his class in the crowded hall, for has he not
paid for it? He usually fiDds an isolated seat in the. middle of a row and go
there he must, whether it be in the middle of a piece or not. He pushes a]oJ;lg.

