unmindful of the gasps of agony escaping ihe lips of those, whose' feet he just
trampled upon. Under such trying circumstances, one is never sure of his
obligations to others or vice versa.
The set-up assumes its most magnificient proportions on one of our city
roads! Bven.the most sophisticated experimental equipment is not capable of
providing such an infinite parameter variation. The group at any time on the
street, again consists of finite beings in our accepted sense, of pedestrians,
cyclists, scooterwalas and motorists. Stray cattle or dogs are not included
here, since they do not conform to the definition of finite beings. They, however are to be treated as ever-present random factors, whose effect can never be
eliminated, it seems. Here again it is almost impossible to come 10 a solution
of the problem, for this is what happens. The pedestrians know that pavements
are there for walking. but the road could also be used with equal facj]ity for the
same purpose. But at the back of his mind the pedestrian has a nagging feeHng;
that after all, what he is doing is no quite correct. This feeling exhibits itself
rather suddenly in his scuttling off across the road, casting neither a look to the
right nor to the left, but perhaps with the very good intention of hurrying on to
the opposite pavement. However, it is the frequency of such occurrences that
is really maddening. If there happen to be two of them together, still the same
tendency is to be seen, only when one of them decides to cross over, the other
decides to linger on but scuttles off the next moment. Meanwhile the one who
took the first step thinks of joining his companion back again. This natural1y
leaves the motorist the only possibility of driving straight on, swerving to the
right or left rendered impossible by the above process. Talking of left and right,
it is said that ours is one of the few countries that still drives "left." One
fleeting moment on" the road may very nea~ly convince you that we have long ago
changed OVer to driving on the right. But this is purely iUusion, for the next
moment everybody seems to keep on to his "left. to This results in a mirage like
shifting of the free space available for overtaking, now to the right, now to the
left. The motorist does not therefore know which way he is going to overtake
the car in front. But""when:be does overtake, be is himself surprised by another
motorist who materiaJisea: from n"owhere to overtake him as weIl as the vehicle
he is overtaking, all at tbe'" "same· time. "The Whole thing is of course further
complicated by the cyclists .. Who, all of them, seem to possess all of the most
difficult feints and body swerv~s, Such movements as our cyclists are capable
of, when only transferred to the"hock~'y field will decidedly assure us of the
Olympic title for a lon~ time to come. If you ask them, they poiDt to tbe pothoJe ridden roads and say that the necessity of keeping their tyres and tubes
intact forced" .them to learn all the tricks. How can one think of obligations
under such circumstances? That there is not even the time to think of such AD

