Unmindful of the gasps of agony escaping tile lips of those, whose . feet be just
trampled upon. Under such trying circumstances, onc is never sure of his
obligations to others or vice versa.
The set~up assumes' its most magnificient proportions on one of our city
roads: Even the most sophisticated experimental equipment is not capable of
providing such an infinite parameter variation. The group at any time on the
street, again consists of finite beings in our accepted sense, of pedestrians,
cyclists, scootel'Walss and motorists. Stray cattle Or dogs afe not included
here, since they do not conform to the definition of finite beings. They, however are to be treated as ever~pfesent random factors. whose effect can never be
eliminated, it seems. Here again it is almost impossible to come to a solution
of the problem, for this is what happens. The pedestrians know that pavements
are there for watking. but the road could also be used with equal facility for the
same purpose. But at the back of his mind the pedestrian has a nagging feeling;
that after all, what he is doing is no quite correct. This feeling exhibits itself
rather suddenly in his scuttling off across the road, casting neither a look to the
right nor to the left, but perhaps with the very good intention of hurrying on to
the opposite pavement. However, it is the frequency of suob occurrences that
is really maddening. If there happen to be two of them together, still the same
tendency is to be seen, only when one of them decides to cross over, the other
decides to linger on but scuttles off the next moment. Meanwhile the one who
took the first step thinks of joining his companion back again. This naturally
leaves the motorist the only possibility of driving straight on, swerving to the
right or left rendered impossible by the above process. Talking of left and right,
it is said that ours is one of the few countries that sti1l drives U left." One
fleeting moment on' the road may very nearly convince you that we have long ago
changed over to driving on the right. B~t this is purely illusion, for the next
moment everybody seems to keep on to his "left." This results in a mirage Jike
shifting of the free space available for overtaking, now to the right, now to the
left. The motorist does not therefore know which way he is going to overtake
the car in front. But .when -he does overtake, he is himself surprised by another
motorist who materialise8: from nowhere to overtake him· as well as the vehicle
he is overtaking, all at.tbe'··samc-time. 'The Whole thing is' of course further
complicated by the cyclists, who, all of them, seem to possess all of the most
difficult feints and body swerves. Such movements as our cyclists are capable
of, when only transferred to the hock~y field will decidedly assure us of the
Olympic title for a Ions time to come. If you ask them, they pomt to the pot~
hole ridden roads and say that the necessity of keeping their tyres and tubes
intact forced. them to Jearn aU the tricks. How can one think of obligations
under such circumstances? That there is not even the time to think of such an

