The Cycle
by Alex Pbillipos

MOOt Chand was a Lower Division Clerk in one of the Offices

in Delhi, and
like most of his colleagues he had one ambition in life-to possess a cycle.
That great day had arrived and Mool Chand was the happiest man in the world.
He and his wife had saved the money in small amounts for a long period. going
through many hardships but now that they had the cycle everything was alright.
Soon after leaving the office, Mool Chand had gone to the dealer with the
money and got his cycle. The first thing he did after buying it was to have his
initials painted on the rear mudguard. This was for easy identification; too
many people had new cycles these days. On reaching home he carefully cleaned
and oiled it. Then he hurriedly had a bath and put on his best clothes. This
was a day for celebration. He should go and show his cycle to his friends. So
far. the only people who knew that he had brought a new cycle was the dealer
and his wife.
There was a small coffee house near his house to which Mool Chand and
his friends frequently went. Till now he had always walked the distance, but
to·day he was going there on his own cycle. As he pedalled along he tried to
imagine the reactions of his friends as he announced to them that he had brought
a new cycle. Deepak the quiet, good-natured fellow would smile and congratu·
late him. Prakash the humorist of the lot would probably create a joke. And
of course the flat jovial sardar Rup Singh would pat bim on the back saying.
"Shabash! Mool Chand". and ask him to order coffee for aU of them. Then
soon after that all of them would come out to admire his cycle. Mool Chand's
mind was so filled with these thoughts that when be reached the coffee bouse he
forgot to lock his cycle - 00 the very first occasion when there was a necessity to
do so. He simply left it outside by the side af the road.
To his dislippointment he saw that he was too early. None of his friends,
had arrived. After sitting inside for a few minutes he went outside. He preferred waiting outside rather than sitting alone inside. Then he got a sbock. His
cycle was not there. It was gone, stolen! Mool Chand ran into the road and
looked up and down wildly to see if he could find anybody pedalJing away
furiously on a new cycle. No, there was nobody. But how could it be stolen,
thought Mool Chand with tears in his eyes. Had he not locked it? To

to

73

