reassure himself that it was locked he put hi.s hand into his pocket to take out the
key. He got his second shock when he realised that it was not there. He had
forgotten to lock his cycle, his new cycle; his most precious possession! Oh how
could tllis great misfortune faU upon him! He spent the next few minutes
crying, not knowing what to do.
After a while, when he had got better control of himself, walked to the
nearest Police Station. There he reported the tbeft. The Police Constable on
duty took down all the particulars and said, "you can come here a few days
later, and we can tell you if we have found anything. Of course, I can tell you
that your chances of getting it back are almost nil. Fellows who don't know
how to take care of their cycles, have no business owing them I"
Needless to say, all this did not improve poor Mool Chand's plight. As
lie walked home he felt as sad and dejected as he had felt happy only a short
while ago. But he had to face up to it. He told himself that there was no
point crying over spilt milk. The main problem now was telling his wife the
bad news. It would hil her badJy. She had gone about the house with shabby
clothes for a long time and made numerous other sacrifices so that her husband
might save enough money for the cycle. Mool Chand decided to postpone the
matter till he could think up a good story. His wife would never forgive him if
he told her that it was stolen because he did not lock it. So as soon as he
reached home he said in as normal a voice as possible, " The cycle got punctured and 1 have left it at Moti's shop to get it repaired".
"Why could not Moti repair it at once?" She asked.
"There was no ]ight. Anyway don't worry, he has::: good rolling shutter,
nobody could break in and take it away at night," said Mool Chand, adding,
in fact it is safer there than in our house:
That seemed to satisfy her.
But Mool Chand could not forget the cycle that night, however hard he
tried. He felt worse about it in the morning. In the office it was no better. So
many of his friends had cycles, yet not one of them had lost his cycle by theft.
In fact some of his friends never even bothered to locls their cycles when they
.ame to 'the office. He had seen unlocked cycles in the large cycle-stand outside
the office many times. To make matters worse he got a scolding from the Head
Clerk.
U You better watch out Mool Chand:' said the Head Clerk, U or you will
be in trouble. This is the third time I have caught you day dreaming today
whil~ the others are all hard at work. You come late almost every day, you

74

