The sudden realisation ot the terrible consequences made him stow down; Ali
sorts of doubts came to his mind now His neighbours would see him with a
cycle and how could he keep a straight face as he showed it to them. There was
always the possibIlity that the owner lived in the same neighbourhood-after all
the coffee shop was not far from his home. In that case, sooner or later
the owner would see the cycle and recognise it. And the worst thing was
that his wife would easily find out, either she would recognise it as a different
cycle or even otherwise he could not keep a secret from her for long. She
would not approve of theft. He had to face up to the odds against him.
After all it was not too late. He could return the cycle, hoping that nobody
saw him doing it. With a heavy heart Mool Chand turned and went back to
the coffee shop.

Just as he reached the shop and got down, his friends came out of the
door, For a moment they stood still in surprise on seeing him; then they all
came running towards him laughing and shouting.
U Where were you Mool Chand?
We were looking for you ,. said one
of them.

"The dealer told me yesterday that you brought a new cycle. Why did
you not turn up yesterday," said another.
"Why do you run away from us after buying a new cycle 1"
Mool Chand did not say a word. Now everybody will know what he
had done. It was all over for him. He had a look of utter despair on his
face. But his friends did not look at him, they were looking at the cycle and
admiring it.
" You better get a cushion for your wife, or she wont be able to sit on
the carrier" said someone and they all laughed. Then somebody noticed that
Mool Chand was not joining in the fun.
"You are behaving in a strange manner Mool Chand I In fact if anybody saw you they may say that you stole the cycle".
" Yes". said Mool Chand in a small voice, "it is not my cycle. I have
come to put it back".
U Now stop all this pretending," said someone, "we can see your initials
at the back. Yes you fool, don't try to look surprised we can see your
initials".

16

