Our N. C. C. Camp
by S. Ramajayam

To begin at the beginning, let me make it clear that by the above title, I
mean the camp at Agatam, for the E.M.E. cadets and not either of the other
two camps. During the two weeks, we cadets had a good experience of the
'discipline' of army life. We had already had tastes of 'military organisation'
during our Parades in lIT. We were steeped in it in camp.
The 'preparation', as the officers choose to call the issue of a pair of shorts
too big for the among us, and a pair of kids too sMall for even the average
foot size, was done two days before we left for Bangalore. The doctor who was
to in us and the train wl;tieh was to bring us OUT blankets were suspiciously
absconding. Obviously, they had eloped. We were allowed to bring our own
luggage. This made the job of counting them worse. Every time, we counted them,
they showed an increase in number, even luggage multiplies fast in India. At
the Central Station, conflicting orders were given-'Board the Mail on Platform 4'
When this was being done, some bright soul found out that we had tickets only fo
thepassenger and so we got the order 'Shift the luggage to Platform 5'. TwentyfOllr kitbags were shoved in one, and we carried enough such kitbags for all our
cadets, to be supplied in campi
We landed at Bangalore cant, having a sleepless night, overstiffed in the
compartments. The Army seems to disperse of the unnecessarily tough gents by
sending tbem to the N.C.C. The cadets were made to stand in the sun and the
under officer was made to report the strength about five times. The VIP was not
satisfied the first time because the dressing was not proper, the next time because
be wanted the armed cadets in front and the next time probably because some
cadet had hit a mosquito wbich sat on his nose. (Even at our barracks we found
these mosquitos a very well trained set. The came in squadrons and unlike their
breathren at Madras, did not hesitate to attack any exposed bit of our bodies at
nigbt, even our palms). The cadets were then made to march the distance from
cantonment to camp-a distance of five to six miles.
A Mysore Unit was also camping at the same spot. These lucky cadets
had canteen where they could spend their spare hours. I do not quite understand the
lojic of it, btlt this canteen was declared out of bounds for us. So was the Army
78;

