Canteen, which wa-s a little further off. We were happy, however, that at Jeast the
Officers did not make the lavatories out of bounds! The 1st EME company, of the
college of Engineering, Guindy, arrived a couple of days after we dId. There
were only eighty of them we were two hundred (and most of them were
the so called volunteers from the first year. They swanked about the dining hall,
jn whites, with a tie which they had been forced to buy and a green Jersey.
We
were consoled when these white parts turned several shades of grey, and finally
black, towards the last day of camp.)
There is a basic similarity in civilian and army life. This is that both
institutions believe in having small units attacking daily problems. There is also
a basic difference. In army life, the VIP's want a detailed description of how the
problems have been attacked. They believe in suiting circumstances to ideas.
At six thirty in the morning they went to know where each cadet is. Again their
curiosity is to be satisfied at eight 0' clock. The job is not as easy as it sounds.
The section commander has to trace twenty year old boys, full of spirits,
(obtained from friends in Bangalore). Some may have sheaked to the canteen
'others may have succeeded in convincing themselves that they need a bath badly.
The latter point of course, is highly hypothetical, because we not only had few
bathrooms, we had fewer lavatories. Editor, it is lucky, both for you and for
your friends, that you did not attend this camp.
One can expect a rough life in camp, but not unnecessary meanness and
llDreasonableness on the part of authority. A couple of cadets were given six
hours night duty as punishment for having had a cup of coffee at the Mysorean
Unit Canteen. (The Underofficer who nabbed these culprits evidently had no
business haRging around there. He had probably finished his daily raid on the
canteen a lion's share of Pakodas, cakes and coffee. I have myself seen him at it.)
_The cadets, after their punishment and barely two hours sleep in the morning,
were ordered to report for P.T. at 6.30-1 am sorry Major-0630 hours. Well,
you might say as our under officer did, that this is punishment. There is,
however, a limit to human endurance and ability and this under officer was being
unreasonable only because the next higher authority was acting mean. It is a
chain reaction. The unfortunate cadet however, has none to find in his turn.
Five cadets were made to stand for eleven hours at a stretch because our
commanding officer had announced on Parade that he had decided to have twenty
four hour shifts. Quite a few cadets had heard him. And reader I have to collect
all my guts to let out that the same man on being informed that the cadets were
unable to stand it, denied having given any such order. This is Democracy for
you. This (dis)organization's wheels arc turned by the whims and fancies of
impressive looking men.
79

