The Dhobi took fiendish delight in mixing up our uniforms. True to it.
name for unreasonableness, tbe cadets are expected to wear 'PAKKA
UNIFORMS' every day on Parade (No overalls were suppJicd and those of us
who worked a little got grease on our pants in the workshops.) One morning I
saw our family size under officer trying to squeeze into an economy size pant. He
told me truefully that-he had written What's call three S's on his what's pant.
Someone bad swiped them. We found in time that the dhobi had sent them to
one of the cadets sections. Had we been a second too late, Seargent Roy would
have cut them a little shorter and thus bagged them - for he too is built on lines
similar to our under officer's though he is somewhat shorter.
Our happier hours were spent in the workshops. We were able to learn
something about automobiles. The authorities wanted us to spend so many
hours in each shop, but they were not bothered if these could be spent profitably
or not. For instance we were supposed to watch a group of men winding arma·
tures for one whole day I We had, therefore, a lot of spare time. The thorn in
the rose bush was that when officers came around we had to salute. The first
problem was to recognize if they were officers. The second problem was to do this
before they passed by. We must have expressed our sympathies for Vijayaraghav8n,
whose reactions are always late. He often used to salute minutes after the colonel
had passed by, throwing the approaching Lance Naik into a state of bewildermentl
A few logicians amongst us wanted to know why we must salute men whom
we had never seen before, simply because he (or in one case she) had three stars.
It was perfectly all right, said one. if we knew the man, and paid him our repects.
N.C.C, and logic, these logicians found out to their discomfort, are miles apart.
These captains and colonels, (we fail to see why again,) lost their shirts over such
a meanly thing as the cadet's salute, I mean the loss of it, and I doubled to
complain to our officer commanding. One reflects that it is lucky that civilian
officials don't go about wearing placards and demanding these so called 'curtsies'
and other formalities.
lance saw our respected under officer fine a cadet smoking in uniform. I
must mention here that the cadet did not have his beret on. Shortly after, I saw
him request a seargeant to take his beret off while having his cigarette. Why this
difference? Db well, as our logicians discovered by bitter experience, N.C.C, and
Logic are miles apart. No wonder at the entrance to our camp, we had this
never forgettable piece on a board 'EME CAMP N.C.C.' (Non co.operative
chaos ?)

•

*
80

