Towards 'Comfort
by P. S. K.

EVER. since

his evolution, man has been taking every possible stride .towards
comfort. In the various parts of the world, the idea of comfort was the chiefest of man's ideas. In the industrious West, man made all attempt to attain
comfort through his industrial knowledge. technology and engineering, devising
new methods and inventing processes that made his burden of labour easier. But
in the philosopbical East man's first idea was on meditation. While the West
tried to raise the means to meet the wants, the East tried to reduce the wants, to
suit the means. Anyway. man's steps towards comfort are substatial.
In tbe process of inventing, man's curious and peculiar mind developed
patents that would really soothe him, if they are made use of with kindness and
tolerance, the very basis of humanitarian qualities. But. man's selfishness and
arrogance gaining the upper hand, such inventions will seal him once and for all
into wilderness. Everyone of us is only too familiar with the results of Fermi's
chain atomic reactions.
But the Orientals in their march towatds comfort have found out a path that
never leads to destruction. Their methods do not involve dangerous inversions. The
very application of Oriental thoughts and philosophy is the subduing of man's vices.
In its glittering progress along the vast field of science, engineering and
technology-its short-cut for comfortable living, when all goes well-the West has
captured the minds of the East. Men in the East are eager to possess the ample
pages of untold knowJedge in the fields of science and tecbnology. But none can
be sure about the application of such knowledge for the sale perpose of humane
construction. They are equally liable to apply such knowledge to unworthy ends
and contribute liberally to the fading out of humanity.
The Orientals have decided to look upon science as their only benefactor
for, no one can stop or alter the stride of science. But, real comfort at present is
so far away that a single spark may turn jnto a huge fire and burn everything.
Man has succeeded only in snatching his own fate from the nourishing hands of
nature but only with a possibility of healing himself. Man's comfort now lies
only on his determination to strike no spark. We have nothing to do except to
hope that all goes well. We will have to trust only man and wish that he is not
subdued by his inborn vices, sucb as selfishness and arrogance, so that he remains
always tolerant and humane.

•
11

*
81

*

