Electronics in the
Service of Man
by Zakria Sait

IN our lives to-day we are sorrounded by the manifestations of the age of
"electronics" . Antennas are in the field of vision everywhere: television
antennas on our roofs, whips on our automobiles, microwave relays on our bills,
radar scanners on our ships. Electronics has given us the the freedom and
the ease with which we talk to each other over great distances; it has provided
us with radio, television, telegraph records and sound motion pictures which
relieve us of our cares and worries and entertain the mind. Without the help
of radar air transportion would.be immensely difficult. Whenever rockets are
launched into space, electronic facilities are available for communication and
control. Less conspicuous visually but equally pervasive throughout modem
life are the electronic information-processing techniques of which the high-speed
digital computer is an outstanding example. In the present article a few
elements from the field of electronics have been picked up and: their fuctions in
the service of making have been briefly described.
Electronic Brain (Computers)

A few years ago it was a fiction that a machine could solve a problem it
was asked. But it turned out to be a fact when in 1940 electronic compllters
began appearing. Indeed, it is a marvellous discovery in the field of electronics.
This machine has the capacity to read a problem, work it out and answer it
correctly and accurately. Besides addition and substraction it can solve many
difficult problems in Mathematics and Physics rapidly. Its functions varies from
predicting the results of an election or an examination to charting the orbit of
a satellite; from composing music to translating a scientific treatise frolll
English into Russian or any other language; (rom playing chess to forecasting
weather. The main difference between a human mind and a computer is that
the human brain can do creative thinking and make decisions which can never be
achieved with the help of a computer.

Radar Techniques
Radar plays an important part not only as a reliable guide for pilots and
naVigators, but also serves as a very useful weapon during wars. No one could

82

