say what would have been the fate of Britain, had she not invented and
possessed Short-wave radar to help during World War II. With the use of
appropriate weapons it could shoot down enemy aircraft, destroy submarines
and spoil machinery and manpower just with the help of very short radio
waves.
It can identify and track moving objects. It can help an aircraft to
land safely at an airport during nights and can also control an aircraft
automatically without the help of a pilot. Ships on the ocean, equipped with
radar are safe from collision with other ships. It can also provide all the
necessary requirements for an accurate system of navigation.
Industrial Electronics and Automation
Electronics finds wide application in industries. Electronic controls of the
mechanical gadgets have solved many a problem concerning quality and rate of
production. The recent advances in the field of automation have almost
succeeded in replacing man by machine. Despite the fact that there was no man on
the space-ships which went towards the moon the people on the earth obtained
as much information as was desired such as weather-flight condition. cosmic
radiation etc. Special electronic controls are being used in machines as protection
devices. The power-supply system can be safely and economically controlled
by automatic devices from any particular place. Recently Britain has developed
an eletronicaUy controlled watch which shows time in hours and minutes with
the help ot illuminated digiti and is absolutely free from any moving
parts.
Transistor
The discovery of the the transistor is a landmak in the history of mankind.
This fantastic discovery has enabled us to make a powerful pocket.radio and
to accommodate a high-power small transmitter on man-made satellites and
space vehicles. The remarkable properties of semi-conductors create new
possibilities in different fields of Engineering. With the help of these
miniaturized transistors it has been possible (or us to build up compact
computers and telephonic exchanges saving a lot of space with improvement
in performance.

Radio, Telension and Telegrap""
One of the magnificent wonders of science ts the invention of wireless
telegraphy. Today in the twinkling of an eye messages can be fiashed aeross
thousands of miles. Wireless telegraphy has been put to use both as a means of
information and recreation. Wireless transmitting stations have been set up in all
parts of the world. A modern orator therefore addresses millions of men not

