knowing in which remote village his voice will be beard. During the war radio
was used for propaganda purposes.
Yet another contribution in the field of electronics is the invention of radio
photo techniques by which it is possible to transmit and receive photos across any
distance. The underlying principle is that the photo is divided into a number of
parts and tran~mitted one by one, and aU these parts are received in proper
sequence so that the original photo is reproduced.
More wonderful than this is the discovery of television which can
transmit pictures at the rate of 30 per second so that the movement appears
continuous to our eyes and its entertainment values are retained. It can transmit
and receive not only black and white pictures but also coloured ones with the help
of colour televisions. These pictures are carried from one place to another by
what are called radio waves which are picked up by the television receiver. and
original pictures are reproduced.
It was natural that in its early years, television should have been used
mostly for entertainment. But it is far more than a toy and can be used for
education and enlightenment. It can teach people to know and understand each
other and help nations to break down the barriers that divide them.
Teleprinter
This is a wonderful telecommunication device rendering tremendous
services to mankind. Letters typed from a particular station are carried either
througb l.l transmission line or tbe wireless medium and are finally received on a
receiver which is also a typewriter in combination with a few automatic controls
This has been of tremendous help to the news agencies and airports which flash
messages from one corner of the world to the otber.

ConclusioD
This i. not all that could be achieved with the help of electronics. These
are but a dim revelation of the boundless future that is ahead of us. We have
been able to receive radio waves from other planets also. As the science of
electronics and telecommunication advances we will be able to know more and
more about the universe with the help of radiowaves. I hope this article would
do well to spur you, to lure you, to dream great dreams and then to awaken
the firm resolution to achieve these dreams. It may not be long before everyone
wears a tiny walky-talky as casuaUy as he wears a wrist-watch today.

*
84

•

