A Room to Let
by 'Veer'

EVER since I got employed here, my geographical knowledge contirrues to increase.
Once when my search for a room extended for we)) Over three months.
1 knew almost all parts of the city of Madras by heart. By reading newspapers
regularly over a long period, my general knowledge had, no doubt, increased but
r was very much disappointed about my inability to get a room. After all, you
cannot spend your entire life staying in a hotel. Moreover, I believe that the
developing circumstances w:tich may ultimately help you to break the monotony
of bachelor life come up better if you reside in a house (or in a portion of it)
than el~ewhere, When I was almost forced to give up cursing my own rottenluck, I happened to nQtice an ad. in the newspaper. It read, 'Well furnished,
mosaic floored, bath attached room, monthly. for gents:
The location suited me fine. In fact, it "as very near my office. But
there was some difference of opinion between my financial conditions and the
words 'mosaic floored.' But it Was worth a try anyway, the reason being that
anyone who doesn't have' to spend much on M.S.T.D. buses can easily
become a millionaire by the time he retires f~om tbe office. J left my office
early that evening and my room at about 5 O'clock just giving the houseowner
enough time to be at home, back from his office. Keeping my fingers crossed all
the time in the bus increased the number of my admirers tremendously. But my.
needs are always more important than these characters' silly looks and I just
tried to forget their very presence.
Promptly at 5-45 p.m. I was knocking at the door of the afore!laid house.
I was allowed in and within about fifteen minutes' time I was engaged in an
infofrqal conversation with that gentleman. The preliminary conversation boiled
down to two important facts. 0) the rent was little above my estimation and
(ti) the Madras Medical College had the honour of training a student from that
partisular house, who happened to be the daughter of Mr. T. (the houseowner).
By tbis time, the central theme of the second important fact entered tbe bouse and
I was introduced to her. 'Smashing,' T thought, but merely managed to say,
, How do you do, Miss l' Pleasant conversation lasted for some time. Slowly we
were getting down to business.

