Mr. T.: Betore you come to our house, Mr Raghavan, 1 would like
to have a frank talk with you. I may deviate into what may be none of my
business but I need facts. I hope you would eo-operate with me. (Cheerfully I agreed.) I would like to teU you tbat I am not bargaining about tbe rent,
and if that isagrred to, I would like to admit that this is one of the C.I.T. houses.
This, without any obstruction, gave me a terrific shock. The newspapers
lome diys ba.ck had informed the readers that most dangerous cracks continued
to develop in C.I.T. building!!, but the Housing Board authorities attributed this
to the adjustable nature of the soil. I was one of the guys who was laughing
about the whole affair. I realised that the time had just come to change my
feelings. • But how does it matter,' I thought 'as long as we all live in the same
house l' Also why should I unnecessarily spoil one man's chances of increasing
his monthly earnings by seventy rupees which ultimately increases his standard of
living 1 I sincerely felt that this was my foremost duty to the nation at an acute
time like the existing one. But telling this to Mr T. may not be very diplomatic.
So, with a nervous laugh, I said, ' I understand your feelings Sir! But these cases
are exceptionally few. And more#over, you see, my life line is very stroDg and
I a.m not expected to have any accident before I am 75.'
Mr. T's sense of appreciation of what he thought was very funny almost
blasted my eardrums.
, [ like you very much, Mr Raghavan.' he said.
, Feelings are mutual, Sir, • I bluft'ed.
It was my tum to be frank. He started asking questions, He asked me
about my forefathers, about my qualification, my salary etc. etc. Then he wanted
to know the power of my glasses, whether I often get headaches, why I am not fat
enough for my age and so on. After undergoing such a mental torture, I really
lot irritated when he asked me whether I suffer from somnambulism. I wanted
to tell him that slavery has been abolished throughout the world and hence my
health conditions need not worry him so much. But this was just an impulse.
It is not difficult for a level-headed person of my calibre to realise that this answer
would wreck all my chances. So, I looked surprised and said, 'Whatever made
you think so, Sir? I have no traces of it.'

Then he wanted to know whether J smoke. 'Yes sir' I agreed, • but I will
take care :not to give you any trouble.' • Tut, tut! Mr Raghavan, I am afraid
you have traces of pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis,' (a lung
disease). I remember I felt dizzy, and I could hear a sound which is normally

