Music in Technology Land
by T. Varadarajan

WHAT bas Technology to do witb music? Why-a lot I, though

music is not in
the curriculum for the B. Tech. course, as far as the student is concerned;
and though they don't have a sabha in the campus, as far as the staff are
concerned-the former need not study music and the latter need not bother to
become members of the sabha.
However, it was just like a periodical·test announcement for the students,
that the staff.members all of a sudden got an invitation (of course along with
the enrolment form) for the inauguration of the Katbyayini Sangeetba Sabba on
Saturday the 29th January. The invitation said that there would be a solo
violin recital by Prof. Krishnan on that occasion and that children below
12 years were not allowed. Since there was no risk involved in attending this
free performance and being able to satisfy the age-limit, 1 decided to go to
the Community Hall.
According to normal conventions, such functions-specially a music
sabha's performance-should start at least half-an-hour behind schedule.
The explanation often given is that the musicians will arrive late since they know
that it will take some time for the people to assemble in a sizeable number.
Similarly. the audience feel that they can come a bit late, as the performance is
no doubt going to start late.
So, 1 went to the hall just at tbe appropriate time (as I thought) i.e.,
5-30 p.m. but to my surprise, the proceedings had already begun, only ten
minutes behind schedule. When I entered the hall, Musiri Subramaniya Iyer was
speaking, giving his blessings to the Sabha. I have heard him speak a number
of occasions and he is one of the wittiest speakers I have heard. I could smell
the sandal paste and rose petals offered at the entrance. The formal opening speech
had earlier been made by Mr T. Viswanatha Iyer of Mylapore and the
Kathyayini Sangeetha Sabha was born in the presence of Lord Rama and his
consorts who were silent witnesses in the picture kept on the platform, and the
distinguished audience. There was a mild stir when Prof. Krishnamurthi
announced' We are going to hear Prof. Krishnan sing; 1et us hear him speak:
However, Prof. Krishnan managed and spoke in the Kamaraj-fashion-a few

88

