words in the lowest athay; possible. As a musician he welcomed the openin, of
such Sabhas.
Next, the performance began. The concert was not from the main stage,
but from a very low-improvised plateform in the middle of the halI. I think that
the audience sitting on the chair and the artistes were kept on the same level,
perhaps with the idea that the audience must feel one with the artiste and
vice-versa.
During the course of the concert, I noticed a few things which are familiar
at aU such occasions and some which were not. Here are a few samples in
each catelory:
Common:
(1) People were comming in even at about 7 p.m. when the proceedings
were half-way through.
(2) Similarly, people were also going out in the middle-the lady member
nrst standing up in her chair, looking for her husband and the respective husband
standing up at the other side, and nodding his head in approval (no other go) to
her proposal to leave and following her.
(3) Whisper-like talks among each other on aII topic. except music, the
speaker assuming it did not attract anybody else's attention.
(4) The Secretary's leather bag. A word about the Secretary and his
famous bag. AU of us know that tbe Secretary of a Sabba must carry in his
armpit a leather bag. But here, I was confused as to who was the Secretary, as
at one stage, I saw Prof. Krishnamurthi keeping that bag with him and at another
stage, Mr T. V. Kllppuswamy carrying it. However, somebody next to me kindly
confirmed that the Secretary must be only Mr T. V. Kuppuswamy, because Prof.
Krishnamurthi being the President of the TempJe Committee could not be the
Secretary also. The man to my left immediately reacted with the following
words: 'See what a tall and big representation of the Humanities Dept in this
Sabha'l.
While the Humanities Dept had been so amply represented. I wondered
whether the other Departments have any connection with music aU. I was very
much satisfied when I found the following:

Physics: The wide spectrum or the artiste's kalpana and sanchara which takes the
audience to unknown worlds and the magnetic effect the musician
produces on you.

