Chemiltry : Soda, which is inevtable for the musicians in between the
many items.
Mathematics: Permutation, combination and many difficult and
different calculations employed in the tholas swaras, etc.
Civil Engg : The Ghatam is made of clay.

Elee. Engg: Mike, loud speakers, lights, fans, etc.
Meeh Engg: During kuteherl, at timts, don't we feel as theugh the
violinist is working on a cutting machine and the Mridangist or
the Kanjira-player on a shaping. machine?
Chem. Engg: Pepper often swallowed by the vocalist during a concert to
live: a soothing effect to the vocal machinery.
Metallurgy: The thambura, violin, veena, etc. have got strin,s.

Applied Meeh.: The vibration-effect (of small earth-quake intensity)
coming out of an amateur Mridangam player
(5) Prof. Krsihnan started with

Vathapl Ganapathim Bajeham.

UncDmmon.
(1) The ladies were, at times, not found talking.
(2) Combination of chairs and carpets in the hall.
This arrangement perhaps was to provide for both dhotied and trowered
people. However, the carpets did not, somehow, attract the dhotied men with
the reesult that except for a few friends of the artistes on the stage, all sat 'into'
the armed cane chairs. It is not known if any of the Parkinson's Laws was
attributed to this kind of human behaviour at social gatherings. When I asked
one gentleman. why he could not sit in the front, he said: When I fecI like
going out in the middle, I feel it embarrassiag to get up and walk out
attaeting everybody's attention-chair is easier'. it will not be a SUI prise if at
the next performance, all gents chose to wear pants so that they can excuse
themseelves from sitting on the carpet. I am sure that this carpet arrangement
have been made only by the engineering unit staff (I found the superintending
engineer inviting peopJe to sit on the carpet). After all, we all know that an
engineer cannt make a hall without the carpet area. Whatever may be the
idea behind the blend, it not at all encouraging for the vidwans on the stase,
~s they will ppt pefinitely give them any inspiration.

90

