Why I Like Solitude
by Y. Visweswara Rao

I

put the same question several times to myself and I could not make out any
cogent answer. But, all the more, it is true, I like solitude.

Actually, humanity can broadly be divided into those who lo.ve solitude
and those who cannot pass even a single moment unless they have some one to
empty their hearts to. Or it may be that the same person may at one time feel
like shrinking into himself and at another time desire to escape from a feeling of
loneliness to be a part of the milling multitude on the street. But onc thing is
certain, people who are confirmed addicts of solitude live in splendid isolation
even in the midst of a throng.
'Single is each being born,
Single it dies! Single it enjoys,
The Neward Virtues'.
Indeed! How pregnant and significant these are! In the case of persens tike
me these lines breathe a special significance. It is a melancholy but inevitablr
truth in my career. God, it appears, has singled me out by making me clubfooted.
This deformity of mine has always made me feel embarrassed among the
people. I have been feeling this sense of solitude right from my childhood.
I have always been afraid of people. How the strange looks of people.
I distinctly remember used to bewilder me-the looks of scorn and ridicule which
used to flash in their eyes as they noticed my deformity. Ioften avoided going
to the crowded places and mass gatherings. Nor did I mix wIth the children of
my own age, and who cared for such deformed companion I as after all?
I used to stand alone in the balcony staring enviously at the gay groups of
children, all chiriping with glee, like bird with its wings cut off, would watch the
covey of of other well feathered birds flying hither and thither with a sweet
twitter. An overwhelming passion would bubble up in my mind to join their
little company. Lonliness appeared .like a great curse to me. But nothing
could help.
Then time passed on and little by little I got used to tbis loneliness. In
fact I used to derive an indefined pleasure out of it.

'2

