And now ..... .1 Solitude is my niost pleasant and favourite feeling. Nd
more a curse, but a bliss. Often I prefer to lie down on the grassy bed in a
lonely comer of my courtyard. under a minosa tree, enjoying the fragnant shower
of the silky petals of the delicate flowers. The wind whisp~rs a rustling secret
into the leafy ears of the tree. I like to find myself along in the company of
nature, who have singled me out from the company of people. Nobody is there
to remind me of the reality. No more am I aware of my deformity and I feel the
joy of self forgetfulness.
This queer of mine was attributed to my arrogance and narrow mindedness.
But alas! I could not help it. 'A lonely man is an unnatural man'-there is a
saying. But mine is a glaring exception to this rule. Never am I so my own
self than when J am alone. Solitude kindles a new spirit in me. Neither can I
read, nor think unless I am alone. My mind begins to spread its beautiful wings
and my spirit flies in air. It delves into the deep vale of the past and takes a
heavenly flight upon the mountains of future~ towering up across the
blue sky of life.
I lose myself in the thought and recall the memories of the past. They
form up in my mind. The whole panorama of my past life is framed up before
me. But when I lose myself in the silken wood of memories, back flows the
tide of time. Past seems to be present before me. The silence around me pregnant'
with memories is dumbly eloquent to me. Tbis silence soothes my heart which
is hurt by the society.
Never can I get more peace and tranquility of mhld or inspiration than
when I am alone. When, I lie in solitude the past and future present themselves
before my inward eye. A great pleasure, and enlivening cheer is concealed
behind this eloquent silence of solitude. It is no wonder then, if I love this
solitude. What, then, do 1 care if the world is dissatisfied with me? What do r
care if the world looks upon me with scorn or ridicule?
I shall only sing,
"Let me live unseen unknown,
This unlamented let me die."

*

*

*

