Buzz in Buses
by B. C.
in a bus is one of the greatest pleasures in the world,' I happened
to remark to my friend. He at once retorted, 'What! Are you a Stoic?
If the aerve-racking sounds and liver.pulling-out joltings give you pltasure then
your skin must be made of buffalo or hippopotamus hide.' If only people were
to put up with the frequent jolts and bumps of the bus, then they would be
rewarded with some of the most amusing pieces of conversation. Practicalminded people would at once say, 'Well, Mister, tell me, how to get into the
bus first and then we can come to other things I'
'Look here,' I say, 'I am least worried whether you get into the bus
or not. If you are lucky enough to get into the bus, that too, after a few
cracked bones and crumpled dress less the purse which is now being fingered
gently by the light·fingered gentry, then you will be rewarded with a fine, amusing
conversation. '
Here are some of the typical pieces of conversation carried on in buses.
'He is like Olivet, wanting mote and mote.' A litetatutc student
perhaps-the thought enters your mind. But you are wrong. You would have
never guessed what the above statements meant until you turned round and saw
a man of Picwickian proportions sitting a few seats behind you.
C He ought to buy two tickets: murmurs another, one who is not gifted
with enough ilesh even to cover his protruding bones. It has been said that
fat people are mostly docile but it must also be said that they are ones who are
laughed at always.
, You see, sir. I was travelling to Tirupati, I never felt so uncomfortable.
You know, Tirupati temple is on a hill and to reach the place the bus.driver
bas to negotiate many bair-pin bends. It is very dangerous, yet the bus driver
managed it so safely. But look here now. This is a perfectly straight road,
yet the bus is jolting. My Itomach scems to be coming out now. These
bus-clrivers arc wretched devils in dis.uile. No wonder the buses are in
disrepair so often.'
This long-winded speech is being given by a bespectacled man of fifty
to his friend sitting next to him. The critic stops his comments to insert a
wad of betel leavlI into his mouth and tben continue..
'PAVJ!LLlNG

