As for politics you can hear many garbled versions of the day-to-day
happenings in the country. The frve-year plans, prices of food-stuffs and the
affair of Sheikh Abdullah-these topics frnd favour with the passenger••
'If I were the prime minister of India, I would cage the lion,' says a lower
division clerk and turning round, surveys the bus to see if anyone is smiling at his
apt usage of words. A sly one murmurs, 'He cannot even become the prime
minister's peon.' Diametrically opposite views are given about politics and in the
heated argument that ensues many get trapped, even those who do not know who
the president or prime minister is. Arguments and counter-arguments are given
and the bus becomes a mobile parJiameat. The entreatrias of the conductor are
brushed aside and the passengers continue. The conductor shouts 'Parrys' and
immediately a hushed silence comes over the bus. The heated debators get down
and what is left is exactly nothing. The 'Parliament' becomes a bus again and
politics vanishes into thin air.
The recent increase in the bus fares in Madras has come in for a lot of
banging. Perhaps the most sarcastic comment was this: 'Sir, I have only two
rupees. It is not enough for travelling by bus. It would be much better if we
take a taxi. It is cheaper and also more comfortable.' This was said by one
person to his friend while waiting at the bus stop.
Tile periodic checks by the ticket inspectors are viewed with disfavour by
the public. I once happened to be sitting next to a man who gave vent to his
anger at the intrusion of a ticket inspector. He said to me, 'The city is going to
the dogs nowadays. Who are these ticket checkers? Are we not all law-abiding
people? Why should they suspect us 1 Who will hesitate to pay a measly ten paise
coin l'
Just then the ticket inspector approached him and asked him to show his
ticket. The so-called moralist made great pretence ofsearching (or the 'lost'
ticket and looked into his valise, his coat and his pant pocket. How could a nonexistent ticket be found on his person? The ticket inspector fined him and after
that the 'moraHst' did not look at me, let alone lecture on the pros and cons of
ticket checking. 1 could not help laughing for 1 knew that when he had
got into thebus at an earlier stop, he had not troubled to get himself a
ticket.

*

•
9S

*

