The Great Detective
by "Mystic n

THE mail train

from Kumbakonam screeched its way through the dark night,
pulling behind it seven odd carriages. All the compartments were relatively
quiet except for one particular compartment where in the harsh grating voice of
one individual only could be heard.

The compartment in question which interests us was crowded. To say it
was just crowded would be grossly inaccurate for the compartment was packed
like a tin of sardines. Also the passengers travelling in that carriage represented
a cross-section of the country. There was a merchant from Nellore, two or three
Banias from Bombay along with their heavily veiled womenfolk, a few betel-chewing pundits from Madras and a horde of children. The only person in the carriage who was dressed in a long flowing pant and slack was a Madrasi and he now
seemed to be the cynosure of all eyes. Not that he represented something modem
but because the people in the carriage were attracted by his yackety-yackety
speech. His speech was every now and then punctuated by wild gesticulations.
Our hero (incidentally, his name was Krishnan) was a gawky youth with
prominent cheekbones and sloping forehead. He looked like an escaped lunatic
from KiJpauk, his disheveUed hair and round spectacles adding glamour to his
personality. He was nonetheless groomed well and the terry-cotton pant he wore
had already been subjected to minute inspections by the co-passengers. To cap it
all, he wore a gaudy coloured shirt filled with pictures of animals which even a
three-year-old would't dream of wearing outside. A neatly folded kerchief
managed to peep out· of his pocket which was so huge that it could have easily
held two large rabbits.
As indicated earlier, our colourful personality was the only person who
was talking in the comparamcnt. He managed to keep the Tamil knowing listeners
engrossed in his extempore (for it was in Tamil that our hero was talking and
every new and then earned a smile for his efforts. He was telling to his neighbour,
the ricemerchant from NeJlore, "You see, sir, I know the tricks employed by the
criminals. I am a detective working on my own. Not an amateur, mind you.
Let that not make you think that I am a novice. I know how the light fingered
gentry make your purses disappear before your very eyes, I know how robbers get
into the house aDd I know how the murderers try to conceal their clues. If I am

96

