allowed to go further I may also tell you that I know where the Police Department
goes wrong while tracking criminals." He turned round to survey the effeet of
his harangue. There were no indications to make him feel disheartened, there
were no murmurs or any sly talk of his being a bore. Our Hercule Poirot, for
that's what he considered himself to be, if not something more than that worthy
detective. "Hmm, I see that you are all astounded, amazed to hear me speak
thus. I can sense that each one of you is eager to know of my exploits. N(), sirs,
nothing doing. My adventures, perhaps you will read in my memoirs which I
think I will write after I retire from this hazardous occupation. My exploits,
will not be revealed now, for it would put to shame Poirot, Perry Mason, or as a
matter of fact, even the great F.B.I." A young man in his twenties who sat in a
corner chuckled merrily at the boastful detective. He instantly shut up and did not
chuckle when Krishnan, the detective looked at him searchingly with stem eyes.
Krishnan looked around once more and said, .. See my stare can outstaro
even that of an owl. The stony look in my eyes has made several accused cough
up their crimes. If criminals were asked to choose between taking a lie-detector
test and facing my stony stare certainly they would choose the former. If
any ........... He wa~ interrupted in the middle of the speech.
A tap on the shoulder made him turn around. It was a Lalajee whose
excessive love for fat revealed by his ample proportioned body who now made the
Punditji sitting next to him very uncomfortable. "Mishler, aop kya kahte hoin?
Muje bee batha low." It was the Lalajee speaking and the heavy accent with
which he spoke made the detective slightly rumed. The detective smiled, the same
cynical smile. He obviously understood Hindi. He started all over again, going
over the same story he had related to the Tamilians, more in fear of the Lalajee's
huge proportions. Soon the Lalajee and his group were full of appreciation of
the long-winded speech made by the bony detective from Madras.
The train stopped at a small station so that the engine could be filled with
water. Krishnan looked out of the carriage and scanned the wayside station for
something interesting or something out of the way. In the illumination provided
by a solitary lamp. he saw two unshaven, haggard characters walking towards his
earriage. Krishnan walked back to the bench and took his seat near the rice
merchant. The two dishevelled characters entered the carriage and peeped inside.
Finding no place to sit they took their positions near the door. Our detective
raised a thoughtful eyebrow. Turning to the rice merchant he said in a low tone,
"Those two are no good characters by their very appearance. They must be thugs,
ex-conivcts. We must safeguard ourselves; They look so dirty and horrible."
The rice merchant looked into the detective's eyes through his spectacles.
The lights above the bench made the glass glint and reflect the yellow rays "You
must not say so. They may be poor agriculturists or workmen."

97

