Suddenly the lights in the carriage went out. Our detective heard shurRing of feet near him. It was exactly a minute and a half before the lights came
on. The rice merchant was not in his place. Krishnan instantly got up from
his place. "All of your remain in you places," he said in a harsh tone, "The
rice merchant has been kidnapped. It is quite obvious that the thugs must havo
kidnapped the rich rice merchant".
Krishnan took a few steps back, keeping the passengers rooted to tile
ground. He looked at the carriage entrance. No, the thugs were not in their
place near the carriage entrance. Krishnan said in menacing tone to the people
there,
"There is something afoot on this train. The merchant is missinS. I am
going to pull the chain".
Krishnan went forward and caught of the chain handle. He was about to
pull it when a sudden cry of "Stop" made him leave the handle. He turned
around and was astonished to find the rice merchant standins behind him hale
and hearty.
"That you"? A strange cry escaped from the detective's lips. He starccl
at the walls of the carriage for sometime as if he were bewitched.
"Did they not kidnap you? Did they not relieve you of your money? How
did the thugs........ His voice trailed oft' when he saw the two unshaven
characters smoking beedis and chatting in a loud manner. The detecive scratched
his head in a very thoughtful manner and queried, "Then they did not kidnap
you?"
"Kidnap?" It was now the turn of the merchant to scratch his head. He
said in a very astonished tone, " I just went to the bathroom to wash my face and
tbose two persons standing there smoking beedis followed me to the
bathroom to wait for their turn. The light in the compartment must have gone
out due to some loose contact or other". He stopped his explanation and began
to guffaw loudly. The other people in the carriage having got wind of the funny
situation, began to laugh loudly, making, of course, pert comments on the great
"detective's" prowess.
Our great "Poirc'!" was, needless to say, slumped on his seat unconscious.
And that saved him a lot of trouble because the irreverent comments made by
his co-passengers would have certainly crushed his ego •

•

•
98

•

