The Deserted Fane
by

P. Venkatesan

BY the time I had reached the ridge I found an aminous change had come over
nature. Dark masses of clouds had appeared from nowhere and filled the
entire sky blackening it as it were and behind this blackness the sun had vanished.
It was too risky to go further and I decided to return to the hotel before the
tempest would break and night close round me in the waste.
So I set out retracing my steps at a run taking advantage of the downward
slope of the path when there came a flash of lightning followed by a distant roll
of thunder which lasted several seconds sending a cold shiver through my body.
It was as if the sky had suddenly split and let go its supressed fury.
The rain that followed continued to pour in cats and dogs. In a few minutes
I was drenched to the skin. Thus caught in the peltins rain and biting cold,
I frantically searched for some shelter and by good luck I saw by the light of the
flash of lightning a big banyan tree not very far from where I was standing.
I ran towards the tree to shelter under its spreading branches. The rain
still pelted me from all sides and the cold wind bit into my bones. All sense of
ciirection was now lost. I was ~ntombed in thick blackness of night,
clouds and rain and of dripping foliage. To move from that spot seemed folly yet
how dreadful to remain there standing on the sodden earth, and in that awful
blackness all round! The intense physical discomfort and the anguish of having to
stay there for how long I didn't know made me regret having come to the place
at all. I desperately prayed that the rain would stop and I would be allowed to
get back to my hotel and enjoy the warm comfort of my bed.
Then suddenly I saw some light appear at a distance. A alimmering dot of
red. My joy knew no bounds at this sight and my feelings were akin to those of a
captain of a vessel who sees the flash of the lighthouse after he had lost his
bearing in a stormy sea.
Instantly I directed my steps in the direction of the light and after
stumbling over many unseen objects I reached the place with aching feet and eyes
balf blind and numb for sleep. 1 knew then that it was the ruins of a small deserted

