(ane. It promised shelter and some companionship. With hopeful heart I entered
wondering what welcome I would get.
I had hardly crossed the threshold when I saw inside a frail worn man
sitting by the side of fire. He appeared to be all expectant and eagerly awaiting
someone at any moment. As he heard the sound of my foot-steps be lifted his
head anxiously and looked at me. There were signs of welcome in his look no
doubt, but more than that he seemed to be searching his mind. Then suddenly
the man spoke in a low feeble voice. "So you have come at last. I was
certain you would, particularly today. It may sound queer to you", he added
after a little hesitation. " But it is true all the same ".
He then moved a little aside and beckoned me by raising his hand to
come and take my seat beside him. With uncertain steps I made my way
towards him and sat down. He gestured and said it was better I took off my
wet clothes. He put more dried sticks on the fire and made it bum brighter.
I began warming my hands when he got up and fetched me a mountain
fig and a mug of water to drink. Wondering what the outcome would be
(for my thoughts ran to the story of the Procrustean Bed), 1 started to eat,
occasionaly glancing in the direction of my host. Was it safe to be alone
with him? He seemed a little queer for he never once looked at me after
the initial few words. Anyway I had no choice left.
My fears, however, proved groundless. The man was harmless. I was
now feeling comfortably warm and wished my companion would be more
sociable. He seemed to sense my desire. Looking up at me he said, "Now you
will teU me what news you bring of her". His words came tumbling, trembling in
eagerness and his sullen sunken eyes sparkled a while with a tense desire.
To say I was surprised is to make an understatement. My face must have
betrayed my amazement. For the man leaned a little towards me and whispered
in my ear, "Leela is her name", As he uttered the name the very music of it had
gone into his being for he smiled. And that smile of his suddenly made me slip
back in memory a full five years.

n
1 bad just returned from my foreign study and was enjoying a vacation in
this hilly place. It was my practice then to frequent the small Bhavani temle at
the top of the hill. The temple was in ruins and no one offered worship there.
The place was therefore not much frequnted and it was a pleasant surprise to me
to see a young girl co~e there daily and wait rather long. I soon surmised that

100

