she was waiting for someone to come who, however, failed to show himself
because of my presence. Though the unsophisticated charming little maid used
to interest me immensly, I stopped freqnenting the place believing that it was a
crime to stand in the way of two lovers.
The girl was Leela and the man, Narayan by name, was a local teacher. He
was quite handsome tben and on the threshold of golden youth. When I thought
of that comely youth. now at the deserted fane all life drained from him, tears
~tarted trickling down my cheeks without my knowledge. I could never believe
that a mere five years could bring so much difference in one's looks 1
Oh what a thing is frustration!
Every day at even faU they used to meet and chat to their hearts' content.
One day as I went past the ruins I heard the murmur of their voices.
"Do you really love me, as much as you profess to; dear?" she queried
eagerly as if to rehear the "One reality from his own mouth, to which he replied,
"Love you? Aye, ask of the musk rose if it loves the morning light". "If so", she
half whispered coyly. In answer he gathered the bashful virgin in his arms in a
warm loving embrace and their secret laughter tittered round the place. Thus they
met frequently and their love grew. But hum~n society is a heinously envious
circle. It cannot either lessen the misery of many or stand t~e happiness of a
fortunate few. People got tired of the ta'cit love affair of Leela and my friend
they began to talk losely about them.
Leela's parents were annoyed. They hence forbade her meeting Narayan.
He was afterall a school. teacher. They had plans to marry her into a rich
family.
The marriage took place soon and school· teacher Narayan became the
butt of ridicule. The schock and shame of it all had affected his mind and he
he started wandering about like one mad.
It was a strange coincidence that I should meet him there in the dilapidated
shrine after five years. The passage of time though not long, the feeling and
frustration had made him a ghost of his former self. The world outside was
dead to him.

III
Now he shook me to wake me up from my reverie and recall my
wandering thoughts and breathed again the name.
I looked up into his face that burned before me with eyes aflame and
told him of how I had met her, and her little daughter and of the heaven of
happiness she was in.

101'

