And as I spoke of her well·being his quivering spirit drank the news it
had thirsted for so long. For a flashing moment, life gleamed in his &hostly eyes
and then slowly sank like glooming light.
" And so she was happy when you saw her la8t'\ he said as if to reaffirm,
and I was glad to say 'yes' at which his halfclosed eyes turned to mine expressing
thankfulness.
The fire had burned out by now but the rain continued still. Suddenly there
was a flash and clap of thunder and a portion of the ceiling came crashing down.
I iumped aside and saved myself but my companion was crusbed under a stone
and he fell face downwards on the dying embers of the fire he had lighted there.
Soon the rain stopped and I started on my way back towards the hotel.
Next morning I made enquiries about Leela and I learned that she was really
happy and was living nearby.
I felt a strong desire to see her. Was it fate that had dragged me to the
deserted fane? If so what was the part it desired me to play in this drama of
life?

A pretty little curly-haired girl greeted me as I knocked at the door of
Leela's house. There was no need to ask who she was. Sbe was an exact
picture of Leela as I had seen her long before. "Mummy, there is a gentleman
here to see you" she called.
Leela came to the door. She had not changed much. I greeted her. She
recognised me in an instant. I felt not a little relieved but whatever should I say?
I stammered a few commonplace things and then I asked if I could have a few
words with her in private.
Having intuitively grasped the situation she led me into the parlour.
Summoning up all my tact I told her of my previous night's encounter and my
meeting Narayan in the deserted fane and his sudden tragic end.
She heard me in tense silence but suddenly her self-composure gave way
and tears started rolling down her cheeks. I could see that she had loved him.
"I am sorry to hear the sad news" She sai~ regaining her self.control. IJ
''Perhaps it was all God's will," she added after a pause, "Who can doubt the
wisdom of Providence?"
cc Yes", I answered, though I wondered within myself what she meant by it.
Did she refer to the fate of the school teacher Narayan, or her own marriage
which turned out to be happy though at first it was against her wish, or both as
proofs of Providential Wisdom?

•

*

102

•

