Love
by G. Sampatb
is the greatest thing in this world. Without love this world will be a very
dull and sorry place to live in. St Paul, a disciple of Jesus, in his epistle to
the Corinthians, has written a Whole chapter about love. (I Corinth, Chapter 13).
He first contrasts it with other worthy things such as eloquence, prophecy, knowledge, faith and martyrdom and says that love is greater than all these. He then
analyses love and says tbat it is made up of patience, kindness, generosity, humility, absence of pride, courtesy, unselfishness, good temper, gentleness, guilelessness, sincerity, faith, hope and charity. He says that love never fails. It is
eternal and enduring. In character building, faith is the foundation, hope is the
superstructure and love is the crowning piece, the finishing touch. Pity. mercy
and forgiveness are the mainfestation of love.
LOVE

We must all love one another. Love is the link of life. It produces unity.
We all know that "Union is strength". Union is the result of co·operation.
Without cooperation we cannot get on in this world. It is love that produces
cooperation. Cooperation can be found only among people who love one
another. Therefore love is very necessary in life.
It is this love and unity that God teaches us to Jearn in our families. We
develop love in our homes; parents love their children and serve them. The
children love their parents and serve them. Sisters and brothers love each other
aad serve each other. All this service is selfless service, born of love. It is this
love between the members of the family that makes the home happy.

First we learn to love our close relatives. Then we learn to love our
friends. Gradually, we learn to love our neighbours. Finally we have to leam
to love mankind as a whole. Love among relatives makes the home happy.
Love among friends makes the circle of friends happy. Love among neighbours
makes society happy. Love among mankind as a whole will make the world
happy. We can compare the world to a big machine. We know that in a
machine, to make the wheels go round smoothly, oil is used. Now. the lubricant
that makes the world-machinery run smoothly is love.
It is love of man to others that makes him do social service work. Social
,ervice is not done for getting money. It is a labour of love, undertaken with..

103

