Making of a Hero
b, Charanjit Siogfl

T"E sky had turned coppery; the time was about six thirty in the evening.

It
was summer and it was good to be alive and kicking. The air turned cool with
the setting sun and it was the ideal time to be out and playing. Didn't they say
you had to be in before it was dark? Well they could hardly afford to yell at
you if the twilight lasted till a quarter to eight: and you slipped in sheepishly at
eight and quietly took your place on the kitcben floor to get your bite of dinner,
Yes, the kitchen floor; because, if Pitaji had been yielding enough to cat oft'
a table, then he wouldn't have bothered what time we got in.
I was watching the sunset from the roof, the breeze was more apparent
there. I had finished my studies those insipid calculus problems, those interminable pages of engineering chemistry. I leaned over the parapet wall to see what
was going on in the street. It was a one way street. 0 I pardon me, a blind alley,
and at this time of the evening the careful observer can always see a few misguided pedestrians ruefully shaking their heads at the wall that rose across the
street for no apparent reason, and then turning away with a scowl. A voluble
few shook their fists and cursed the town planners and their ancestors in a manner
that left no doubt regarding their pedigree. On the whole it was a pretty
interesting sight.
It was dark in the alley and my eyes took quite some time to adjust to the
murk. A few children were pJaying there, and among them I could make out my
brother Mukand. They were moodily kicking at the littered mango guthlis, for
want of iomething better to do. Their voices were subdued; they had run out
of ideas for making mischief aod were truly bored.
Suddenly a voice cried out, •• There goes the eat."
A childish chorus took up the cry, "Manno Billi. Manno Billi, pussy cat."
There was a confusion of voices while the children chattered over this fresh
avenue for the outlet of their energies.
A meek voice spoke hesitatingly" Let's catch it and teach it lome tricks."
That would be brother Mukand. He always had a gentle, peaceful approach te
all fresh prospects and opportunities.

105

