A doubtful pair of voices assented weakly, "Yes yes. let us teach it some
tricks!' A silence. A few mutterings of indecision, while the cat poked around
the gutter to look for a chance tit-bit.
Then like a slap came Rajiv's voice. "I say, let's kill the bloody
hQt/mQsh.'· There was a babble of excited voices at this totally fresh proposal.
"Wh...Wh... Why should we kill iU" stuttered Mukand.
"Well ..• to there was a pause while the bully looked for an excuse.
it is a bad cat," he said triumphantly.

~'WeU

" Bad cat, bad cat, U came the chorus.
The cat was poking among the dustbins now. It was one of those lean
looking strays, weak and pathetic•
.. Yes, we should kiU it, it killed out chickens," came another rowdy voices.
" How do you know it is same one?" asked Mukand appealingly.
"It is," was the short obstinate reply.

"Well, even if it is not let us just stone it for the fun of it," chipped in
Gullu. This moderate sentence satisfied the riff-raft', they chorused assent and
gathered stones and odd pieces of bricks. Mukand stood by quietly not knowing
what to do. The cat stood next to the waH, the wall that ran across the street,
the wall that was very high, the top of which was lost among the high stroD,
washing lines during the day time.
While the precision of an artillery barrage, the stones, tbe brickbats, the
mango guthlis flew, there was a sharphowl from the cat. It tried to scramble
up tbe wall. Probably it was too high, or the cat was took weak; but, she came
slithering down. She tried to run out of the aUey but there was a ring of tight
lipped youngsters ready to apprehend her escape.
The cat went back to the wall, then climbed a dustbin, thinking it
would be safe there. She made a perfect target sitting on it. Once again
the missiles were hurled. There was a cry of anguish both from Mukand and
the cat. Mukand, the gentle Mukand, couldn't stand it any longer. He
rushed to the cat and made a grab for it. The barrage hadn't stopped.
Mukand got hit a number of times. I saw him shake his head as if to
shake off the pain. The excited, angered cat scratched his face, thinking that he
had come to harm her 100. He held the cat next to him and ran out of the
cordon of the cat.teasing hooHgans. They lended him a few kicks for
baving robbed them of their pleasure. I didn't go down to help him! I felt

106

