Reports
Institute Gwnkhana General Committee
by Liona) Paul, General Secretary

THE activities of the Institute

Gymkhana started with the lIsual "swearing in"
ceremony over which Dr Koch presided. For the benefit of non I.I.T.
readers, the Institute Gymkhana handles all the extra curricular activities of the
students.
This year, as in other years, we had our usua] quota of Committees and
committee members - a new feature however was the formation of the External
Affairs and Social Service SUb-committee which consisted of all the class representatives.
Most of our star performers having passed out, one would normally have
expected a lean year for I.I.T., at least as far as extra-curricular activities were
considered. But as it turned out. the blanks left in the various teams were more
than adequately filled up. Our quiz team carried on their good work by winniDg
practically all the Inter-Collegiate competitions in the city and the Group discus~ion team once again established its clear cut superiority in Madras. The
Debating teams, not to be outdone went on a spree and succeeded in winning three
team trophies in the space of four days, with a lot of individual prizes thrown in.
In the field of entertainment too we have had our fair share of laurels.
Our Institute Orchestra the Beat-x proved their worth by winning the Judges
Trophy in the Inter Collegiate Musical Knockout competition and our variety
entertaimment team did well to be placed first in the InteI-col1egiate entertainment
competition conducted by our Institute.
The success of our sports teams has also been significant. Our rowing team
did well to win the Inter collegiate fours event and the Stanley cup for tennis
singles returned to I.I.T. for the second successive year. Our athletics team has
developed into a wen balanced one and they did creditably well to finish second
to the strong Y.M.e.A. contingent in the Buck Memorial Athletic Meet, and our
Inter collegiate Meet for the Director's Trophy.
Mention must be made of the fine manner in which the literary and cultural
week, the science fair and the open athletic meet were condl,lcted. The success of

