these were dependent to a large extent on the amount of work put in by the
various committees. A word of praise for the Editiorial Board of Campastimes.
Campastimes has maintained, if not bettered, its fine standard of previous years
and it is fast proving to be truly inter-collegiate in its circulation.
Two notable omissions in the list of activities this year are the inter I.I.T.
meet and the youth festival, both of which were called off due to the National
Emergency.
In conclusion, I must thank our Director, Registrar and the Gymkhana
President for the whole hearted encouragement given to the students. I would
also like to thank the staff advisors of the various committees and the committee
members for the fine manner in which the activities have been conducted this
year, thereby upholding the traditions of our Institute.

*

*

Sports Committee
year as in other years we entered teams in the Madras Inter Colleciate
leagues, in football, hockey, tennis, cricket, volleyball and basketball. Our
performances, though not excellent, were good enough to keep I.I.T's name alive
in the sports wOIld of Madras. In Tennis, we once again lost to tbe Engineering
College, Guindy but had the satisfaction of seeing Lionel Paul whip their ace
Dinesh K. Shah. Lionel Paul went on to win the Stanley Cup for Tennis singles
for the second successi\'e year in the Bertram tournament beating university
players, Inderjit, MUlhu and' Lakshmanan in the quarters and semi finals respectively and accounting for an up and coming youngster, Anand Amrithraj, in
Itraiaht sets in the finals.
THIS

In the other games I would like to dwell on cricket for a second. Though
there was no trophy to our credit I would like to point out tbat our team held the
mighty Engineering College, Guindy to a draw - the only team to have done so
in the past three years. I hope that next year we achieve greater heights by beat.
ing Guindy. In hockey we reached the semi finals of the Jain ColJege tournament
The team also entered the YMCA tournament.
We sent a table-tennis team and basketball team for the Bertram, but met
With no success. We also entered a ball badminton team in l!MCA tournament,

2

