this yea'r we sent If regular athletic team tor the Buck memorial Meet and
managed to secure second place to YMCA college. Special mention must be
made of Ranjit Puri, R.M. Nair, Thomas Victor. George Verghese, Joshi Paul and
Anand Swaminadhan. Our own Inter Collegiate Athletic meet for the Director's
trophy went off quite well with six outside colleges. We got the second place
after YMCA. There was a tough fight for the Gerhard Fischer trophy for the
individual championship between Joachim of Loyola College and Zackriah of
Prqidency college. Joachim won the coveted trophy.
Three new games have been introduced in the Inter hostel competitions.
They are carroms, chess and tennikoit. The enthusiasm shown in these games
clearly shows that it was a good idea to include them. The General Championship for the Schroeter Cup has developed into a two way fight between Tapti
Hostel and Krishna Hostel. The holders Cauvery Were in the running but are
out of the picture now.
Two Inter I.I.T. records and 9 Inter Hostel records went over board in this
years Annual sports meet. The two inter I.I.T. records were in the 1500 & 5000'
both to Joshi Paul. However he dido't better his own 1500 m record of 4 m 28 sec.
set last year. The Institute records created were in the 100 metres and 200 meten'
by George Verghese, 400 m, 800 m and 5000 m by Joshi Paul, 110 m hurdles by
Anand Swaminadban and in 4 x 100m relay, 4 x 400m relay and 4x medley relay
all three to Tapti Hostel. The championship, as expected, was won by Tapti
Hostel, with Anand Swaminadhan of Cauvery winning the Individual championship.
Ebenezer Sargunar won the senior sculls and the pairs in the recently conducted Regatta at the Boat Club. He represented the Boat Club. M.C. Murthy
won the Maiden sculls and his crew consisting of lITians won the Junior fours.
Cheu: Three of our players represented I.I.T. in the Loyola College Chess
Tournament. B.B. Kamdar and S.G. Deshpande reached the quarter final stages,
where they were eliminated.
-Anand Swaminadlum'

*

..

*

The Literarlf Committee

THE year under review has been a remarkable success from the

point of view of
Literary activities. Our Institute debators have scaled heights that have
never before been reached and we have now one of the best teams in the south.
This year our Institute team represented by R. Shankar and Ashok Kacker
annexed tke Gordon Mathews cup for the interooeollesiate debate held at the

3

