Madras Christian College in February. The same students also won the Junior
Chamber of Commerce Shield, beating law College. R. Shankar was adjudged the
best speaker. The same team was placed first in the All India Debate held in the
Literary week and this time Ashok Kacker won the first individual prize.
Another Institute team represented by Caius Camillus and Madhusudan
Menon won the inter-collegiate trophy for debating held at the Madras Institute
of Technology. Both of them secured individual prizes.
The Institute Quiz team represented by V. Venkatesan, M. C. Murthy,

R. Neelamegham and Alex Philiphos has won many laurels both at home and
abroad. The Institute team consisting of V. Venkatesan and R. Neelamegahm
won the Saturday Evening Club shield for the third successive year in this
and also in the Quiz conducted by the Engineering College, Guiody.
V. Venkatesan won the second individual prize. The team also emerged triumphant
in the series of Quizes conducted by AIR.
Group discussion has so far been patently IITian but now other colleges
have rapidly caught the infection-The standard of Group Discussion witnessed
at the Literary Week was of a higb order and in future our team needs to work
harder to remain at tbe top. Particularly the standard of Group Discussion of
the ladies' colleges, the Women's Christian College and the S. I. E. T. college is
indeed very good, probably because they have tbe biological advantage whicb
professor Higgins so eloquently decried. Our Institute team which bas remained
undefeated this year must step up its efforts to prevent shields from straying into
strange lands in futute. The Institute team is at present represented by Prem
Babu, B. B. Kamdar, V. Srinivasan, C. Camillus and Ashok Kacker.
The Literary Week heJd in February this year was an unprecedented
success and the higb standards of literary and cultural performances witnessed
then has evoked praise from all quarters. In all the Literary competitions held
in the Literary Week, the Institute came first. The Institute trophy for AU
India Debate went to the Loyola college, Tbe Dr Klein's Trophy for German
Recitation to lIT, the Group Discussion Trophy to W. C. C., and the Quiz
tr~phy to the A. C. CoHege of Technology, Madras.
A notable feature of this year is that both the Debating and the Quiz
teams have had an 100% success.
No report will be complete without a few words of thanks to those who
have helped the committee in the past and have promised to do so in the future.
The Director, the Registrar and the President of the Institute Gymkhana have
extended all possible help to us. The staff members particularly those in the
Humanities Department, have taken an increasing interest in tbe activities of the
committee. A special mention of Prof. Krishnamurthy and Dr Klein is
4

