neCessary in this connection. They have spared no pains to make this year an
eventful one.
Finally a word of praise to those volunteers who have worked very hard for
the committee. The excellent manner in which the Literary Week was conducted
is due to the unstinted cooperation of these people-people who work behind
the scenes and people whose names may perhaps ever find a mention. The
students have also taken interest in the committee and in the Literary Week and
average of 800 people turned up every day.
As we close down the shop for the year we have great satisfaction that
this has been a truly remarkable year-one that will long be cherished in the
annals of the Institute as a year of achievement and progress.

-Y. Venkatesan, Secretary

*

*

Music, Entertainment &
film Committee

AT the outset it was decided that the Music, Entertainment & Film Committee
shortly known as Entertainment Committee should be as active as the tight
schedule of studies would permit. Our fears as to the lack of participation were
realised when no entries other than that of the Beat-X were received for a proposed evening of variety entertainment which was planned on a grand scale. This
was so not because we lack talented men but because these talented men (after
days of tiring work), I hope) preferred being entertained by others. A similar
experience was met with while selecting our team for the inter-Collegiate Entertainment Competition, conducted by us, for Prof. R. G. Narayanamurthy's
trophy. Practically nobody turned up for the first selection. Another was inevitable. Many responded to the "Mayday - Mayday" call and our team was
selected and finalised at about 1 P.M. on the day of our performance: After aU
this, we were adjudged the 'best team' making a clean sweep for us in the Fourtb
Literary and Cultural Week. As it was decided this year tbat I.I.T. would take part
on this competition only to fight for a place and not forthetropby, the trophy was
presented to the second best team, S.I.E.T. Women's College. Of the four
prizes for outstanding individual performances, the best acting prize went to
Madras Christian College, the best-dance prize to Women's Polytechnic, wbile
I.LT.'s Goofy alias Gopa} Ramachandran and the Beat~X's Jayaraman got the
best-vocal and best-instrumental prizes, respectively.
Unfortunately the Youth Fe'stival and the Inter-I.I.T. Meet (Athletic &;
Cultural) were cancelled this year due to the National Emergency.

