For the first time, I.I.T. participated in the interconegiate Dramatic Contpetition conducted by the College of Engineering, Guindy. We staged a Tamil
play, 'Pushpalatha'.
Our Institute Quartet, the Beat-X proved their mettle at the Musical
Knock-Out where they walked away with the Judges' Prize for the best orchestra.
At present they are in considerable demand throughout the city.
This year we had more shows by foreign artists than previously. Among
the more memorable was the charming puppet show by the noted German puppctccr, Mr. Dennebogh.
The U.S.I.S. sponsorcd renditions of the original sound-tracks of "My Fair
Lady" and "The sound of Music" proved extremely popular, pcrhaps morc 10
bccause of Mr. Francis P. Coward's assuring side commcnts. A sextct from the
Indiana University Jazz Enscmble thrilled an appreciative audience for over an
hour. They in turn professed to be thrilled by the warm reception they werc given.
The fact that this year the U.S.I.S. regularly put on film shows twice a
month at the Open-Air Theatre, also desctves mention. Our regular film showstoo continue as usual. As many as six films a month have been shown, though thc
usual periodicity is one a week.
There will be more glamour in the future. Steps are being taken by thc
President of the Gymkhana to arrange for a well-equipped music-room. A 3S mm
projector and screen have also been sanctioned. A team has already visited the
Open-Air Theatre, and a report on thc feasibility of arranging 3S mm shows thelc
has been submitted.
The thought of having a closed auditorium unfortunately has not taken
proper shape as yet. The President of the Gymkhana is thinking on the lines of
having a dome over the Open-Air Theatre.
This report is being submitted much in advance of the Inter-Hostel Entertainment Competition for the trophy presented by the Enaineering Unit. Organiing a variety entertainment programme on Institute Day is also our committee's
rcsponsibility. These functions promisc to go off well just as alI the other functions have, with the able guidence and support of Dr. G. Rouve, Staff Adviser of
our Committee, Prof. P. C. Varghese, the President of the Gymkhana and the
co-operation of all the members of the Committee. The committee owes a deep
debt, of gratitude to Dr N. Klein and Dr V. Anantharaman for their unstinted
cooperation whenever they were asked for help or advice.
-So M. Krishnan

•

*
6

*

