Fine Arts Committee
]'HE

year started with a bang. All members were unanimous on one thingthe thus far neglected field of arts, definitely deserved boosting. It was
time some one did something about it-and this was the year to do it. A vital
necessity was a staff member, well versed in arts and a pleasant personality to
boot. The choice, (and a wise one at that) was Mr Ebert.
A series of committee meetings ensued. It was decided to convince the
authorities higher up, of the need for a dark room and an arts studio. Soon,
rooms were sanctioned, both for the studio and the dark room. But, the matter
rested there. The problem was money. The art studio of course, wasn't much
of a problem, but oh! well, the dark room II At the time of writing, the dark
room is still in the dark. The cellar room in Narmada Hostel will function ••
the studio. The superintending engineer is presumably getting the joint fitted
and cleaned up.
Came October 15th, and it suddenly dawned on us, that it was just a
week to Dinli. Divali cards may not be a bad idea! A lot of funning around
and general activity followed. The cards came out just in time, and sold like,
you know whatt-hot cakes.
The approach of terminal examinations, cast a cloud on the committee's
activity, but this was not for long. Hardly had the examinations ended, when
pat came a suggestion-say, let's have a sketching competition. The course of
action to be taken up, was to organize, announce, and drive the stUdents to the
competition. Though the student response wasn't exemplary, a number of lood
entries did come in.
A fitting end to an eventful year, it was feH, would be a science fair. This
promised to involve a great deal of organization and required considerable unity
in the committee. However. it was worth the gamble. Months in advance,
noti€es were sent out, requesting students for projects. As expected, the
response was tame. An intercollegiate photographic competition was also
proposed, This naturally meant running around to city colleges to collect
entries, while one lost valuable attendance at home.

1

