But for Herr Ebert's unstinting help, and the maximum utilization of work·
shop resources, the Fair would have been impossible to set up. In a matter of days,
all the preliminary preparations and shifting was over. A few late nights were
spent in decorations, and the Science Fair was ready to open. The crowds that
came were tremendous. So much so, it became necessary to supply throat
lozenges to aU loud mouthed volunteers! . The literary and cultural week. featuring the Science Fair, was a grand finale to a very successful year for the Fine
Arts Committee.
-A. K. Sh~noy

*

*

*

Publications Committee

THE only committee that has had to keep

on its toes throughout the year is the
Publications Committee, which, without sounding too' boastful can claim
this unique honour. Little need be said in proof of it. The regular publications
of the five issues of Campast;mes and the publication of the seventh annual
number of the magazine should suffice.
While we are still at this topic of publications, we might remind the
readers that committee bas undertaken to bring out a supplement to Campastimes,
lIIhich has a special emphasis on Science and Technology.
The Committe, under the fine guidance of the publisher Prof. Sampath and
Dr KJien not only succeeded in bringing out the issues on time but was also able
to maintain the high standard set up by our previous committee. Mr Gautam
Mahajan's hard and persistent work as the Editor of both Campastimes and
the Institute Magazine deserves high credit.
The special feature of our publications (quite unlike previous ones) is that
all the articles have been contributed solely by the boys themselves. However. we
hope that more co-operation from staff members will be forthcoming for the
future issues.
Having stated this much, 1 think it is about time we closed shop. But
before we actually do so, we would like to thank the various presses for their
close cooperation, and also the numerous other persons who have helped out
with our publication work and whose name, if we were to mention, would fill up
an entire page.
-R. Jaikumar

*
8

*

