External Relations and
Social Service Committee
THIS committee was started this year.

The usual practice was to assign all the
class representives of the Institute Gymkhana to some of the other committees
but this year it has decided to start a new committee which takes care of the jobs
which do not come under thejurisdiction of any of the other committees. Two of
the most emphatic of these types of jobs were to get people from outside the
Institute for same function or the other and to carryon social service activities
inside the Campus.
Previously I. I. T. used to maintain a distant relationship with the other
city colleges. Very many meetings of the Madras city colleges student committees
were not attended· by any representative from our Institute. The popularity
of I. I. T. was steadily coming down and reached its lowest during last year's antiHindi agitation. But this year with adequate representative by the members of the
external relations and social service committee in most of the city colleges' student
body meetings, others have came to understand us much better and we have been
accepted into the student fold of Madras. The members of the committee did
quite a lot of work in recruiting volunteers and reception commitee members for
the functions in our Institute and this is no small measure to the success of all the
functions.
On the Social service side the committee was kept busy during the days of
emergency collecting money for the wounded Jawans and their families.
The total amount from the various hostels came to Rs. 2,843.38. In addition to
this, quite a large sum was collected froD;l the staff of the Institute. There were two
more defence collections and a collection for the Red Cross. The students must
be congratulated in the way they unstintingly contributed to these causes.
The external relations and social service committee took up the job of
getting recruits for the building of the Institute swimming pool. Most of the
concreting was to be done by our students and volunteers used to report for work
on Sunday mornings for a couple of hours. The N.C.C. cadets used to do the

