Special features
1. The Second Convocation: was held on the 3rd of April 1965, when Shri
M. C. Chagla, Union Education Minister delivered the Convocation address;
Out of 122 students who took the B. Tech. degree examination, lIS came out
successfully and were awarded diplomas with as many as 76 securing 1st class.
2. Inauguration of the Machine Tool Laboratory of the Mechanical Engineering Department: It is noteworthy that this Laboratory has been equipped
with the most modern type of machines, lathes such as High Speed Lathe with
stepless drive, Copying Lathes, Horizontal Drilling and Milling Machine,
Twistdrill, Grinding Machine etc. All these machines are completely instrumen·
ted for study of machine characteristics, vibrations, tool performances and
research work upon machine tools. The machines that are expected in the neai'
future include a Spark Erosion Machine, one Ultrasonic Machine etc. Researcb
work is being undertaken in metal cutting, cutting of tools and machine tools.
3. Inauguration of the Steam Laboratory: In view of the possibility of
new thermal and nuclear power stalions being set up in this part of the country
and the subsequent importance of studies in heat power stations, the commissioning of the Steam Laboratory this year can be said to be a landmark in the development of the Institute. The Steam Laboratory now commissioned can be said
to be one of tbe most advanced laboratories in this field. It is the intention to
take in post-graduates and research workers in this field from now, since the
commissioning is over.
4. The Analog Computer: which was commissioned in the beginning of
1965 is playing its full part as a teaching aid of great value. From this year, full
use is being made of this valuable equipment gifted by the United States .of
Ameriea through the good offices of "Tools for Freedom ", a non-Government
American Institute in New York that works for the objective of assisting technical
edueation in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
5. The Liquid Nitrogen Plant: has been commissioned just recently. The
Plant, imported from Holland was supplied and erected by MIs. Philips India
Limited, Madras. This commissioning is a welcome starting point for research
work in all Departments where low temperature techniques are involved.

