6. The erection of machines in the Hydraulic Machines Laboratory is fast
nearing completion with 2 German erectors working continuously for the same.
7. Two modern vertical Pulsators for fatigue testing of Metal Components for the Department of Metallurgy were erected by a German Engineer
and have been commissioned.
8. Work. in Hydraulic Laboratory in the Civil Engineering Department~
specially regarding Tilting Flumes is under rapid progress and is expected to be
completed in the very near (1Jture.
Buildings. I. A new building at a cost of Rs. 5.8 lakhs to house the
different units of the N. C. C. has been completed. It was inaugurated by
Major General Virendra Singh, Director-General. N.C.C. on the 14th December
1965. The Institute is happy that at a time when N. C. C. activities are very
essential, during the Emergency of the country, it has been possible for the Institute to give the N.e.C. organization the very best facilities available in Madral
and possibly in the whole of India.
2. A new hospital building at a cost of about Rs. 2.23 lakhs has beeD
completed.
3. To house the Metrology Laboratory, a new block has been constructed.
This building will be utilised both for Shop measurement work as also for fine
measurement required for standardisation of instrument and gauges. This
laboratory is suitably air-conditioned for these purposes.
4. Work has been started on the Administration Block and the Central
Library Block.

New Indo-German Agreement
The term of the first Indo-German Agreement for 5 years being over, the
second Indo-Germen Agreement for further collaboration between the Govern.
ment of the Federal Republic of GermaRY and the Government of India for the
further development of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras is being CODeluded. This marks a very important stage in the development of the Institute
.in that the agreement provides for the following:

1. Provision of the requisite number of German Professors, Senior
Scientific Assistants, Visiting Professors and Foremen for a period of
5 years for the further development of the Institute and for the establishment of the further laboratories in the Institute with adequate
facilities for teachins and research.

