~ubiau ~ustituft nf 'QJttquo(n,S\1, c®tab-ras
THIRD CONVOCATION
30th, July 1966

Address by Sir C. V. RAMAN
NATURE mE GREAT MENTOR
have been at many Convocations but I have never seen an assembly that
impressed me so much as the one that I am priviJeged to address now. I have
been on a joy-ride through the Campus and was thrilled to see the wonderful,
old banyan trees, the wild grass, the thorns here and there and the oocasional
buildings. Study, lectures, books and examinations constitute a small part in
a man's or woman's education. The greatest teacher of all is Nature herself, the
supreme artist who creates forms of beauty, loveliness and colour that have been
unsurpassed since the beginning of time. She has been the inspiration not only
of artists, painters and sculptors but men of Science as well. She should inspire
the new graduates. Technology and Industry are usual1y associated with dust
and smoke, squalor and ugliness; this ought not to be so. Life is not merely a
matter of getting food, clothes and shelter. Its finer aspects are to be found in
music, flowers, colour and beauty and the aesthetic sense and sati~faction that
are derived from an enjoyment of all these. I was privileged to be shaken by the
hand by your prize-winners, hefty young fellows with plenty of grip in them.
This is as it should be, because physical strength and energy form the basis of all
engineering activity.

I

THE GERMAN GIFT
It is right and proper that on this occasion I should speak of that great
country, Germany. To me she is all the master-minds that have made her greatmen like Herman von Helmholtz and Albert Einstein who have written their
names in an inperishable way in the records of Science. Ten years ago, I
attended a Conference at Lindau-a lovely little place on the edge of Lake
Constance. This meeting was hosted by Count Bernadotte, and the minimum
qualification for the Invitee was that he should have won a Nobel Prize. I went
on to the ancient University of Freiburg in Breisgau and then to Bonn. Here
I was enormously impressed by the Museum of MIneralogy and I marvelld at the
way that a country so much davastated by the war could get together so swiftly
such an amazing collection of rare and beautiful specimens. By a coincidence,
our Prime Minister, the late Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, was also in Bonn at that time.
We had lunch with the President of the German Republic. It was on this
occasion that the German Government promised their gift of this Institute to
India. And in a short span of ten years, a veritable jungle has been translated

9

