into a place of learning with its nine buildings and equipment and bright, young
people from all over India, and here such a magnificent assembly has been
presented to me for my delecatation.
THE IMPACT OE THE ALMA MATER
This joyous and colourful scene should be a unique occasion in your lives.
Fully sixty years ago, I came out of College in this very City. I find, to my
astonishment, that my experiences of those four years have left an indelible
impression on my mind; and what is even more remarkable is that all that I have
done in the last sixty years was determined for me with mathematical precision
by what I did in those four years. I want to stress this because in these three,
four or five years that you have been here. you have been subject to the influenee
of your teachers and also, I hope, of the old banyan trees around, which I do not
regard as unimportant.
THE GLORIOUS TIME OF YOUTH
On the foundation of what you have learnt here, you must build yout
future. The most wonderful possession that we all have is the human body with
the marvellous, absolutely incredible power of the human faculties. The habit of
independent thinking must be applied to all the problems of life. It is the
achievement of doing something of permanent value that will bring real joy.
Only by realizing this, when you are young and energetic, when your blood is
coursing strongly through your veins, that you will meet with success and advance
the glory of Indiao Age is usually credited with wisdom. With all deference to
the people around, I beg to question that proposition. As you grow old, you
will find it difficult to summon up the enthusiasm and the fierce desire for acbievement. It is for this reason that I regard youth as the most glorious time of all.
Practically all the great discoveries of Science have been made by young people.
It is not the experience or the wisdom of old age but the freshness of outlook
and the indomitable desire to achieve, which are characteristic of youth, that
make discoveries possible ..
FEARLESS AND INDEPENDENT THINKING - NEED OF THE HOUR
There is a deep and ineradicable defect in us that is due to the inferiority
complex that makes us think that we dare not question what comes to us from
abroad. Whatever is said in a text-book must be right and we bow in fear and
trembling because a great man has said it. This produces mental inhibition,
I do not for a moment suggest that you should all become arrogant and
contemptuous of all the great men of th~ past. But we should remember that no
one is infallible, net even Herman von Helmholtz or Einstein. Time's new
knowledge may upset what was done in the past, Fearless independence of
thinking is our essential aeed today for our progress.
10

