We are ruled by a Consortium of all the nations of the World except
ourselves. It is bad to borrow money but much worse to borrow knowledge and
to forget to think for ourselves. I consider that it is far better to work with our
own imperfect, inadequate equipment than to shine in borrowed Jeathers. And
it is my firm conviction that no country can become scientifically and industrially
great without a foundation of real knowledge.
SCIENCE A PRELUDE TO TECHNOLOGICAL PROGRESS
Science comes first and Technology follows in its wake. Germany is great
because in the nineteenth century she had a galaxy of "men of Science, humble
University Professors who sought knowledge for its own sake and who made their
students seek knowledge. These were the springs from which knowledge gushed
forth and fertilized all the Industries and raised the country's prosperity. It is
only when we build up our own powerful schools of thinking in various 'fields,
electro-technology, chemistry, metallurgy and the like, that we shall have a solid
basil for teaching the technologists what they should do.
The finest and most sophisticated instruments are today to be found not
in technological establishments but in the research labaratories where men try
to explore the hidden secrets and discover the unknown. Not only is Science
the fountain-head of technical knowledge, but in many instances it has set the
problems which the technologist had to solve. The aitronomers, (or instance,
have demanded instruments of the highest precision with which .the heavenly
bodies could be tracked. This l.d to the development of p:-ecision mechanics.
The imposing two-hundred inch telescope at Mount Palomar, weighing hundreds
of tons, moves with the precision of a Swiss watch. The demands of Botanists
and Zoologists who wished to examine subtle structures paved the way for striking
progress in the Optical Industry. It was a scientist who thought of the Electron
Microscope, and it is in widespread use today.
THE NATURE OF SCIENTIFIC ADV'ANCES
What has made Science develop in the explosive, spectacular fashion that
we have seen in the last sixty years? There are three distinctive causes. The
first is that at the end of the nineteenth century and at the beginning of the present
century came a succession of epoch-making discoveries in fundamental knowledge,
the discovery by Planck of the quantum of action, the enunciation by Einstein of
the corpuscular nature of light and the use of this principle by Neils Bohr and
others to analyse the structure of the atom and to explore the chemical molecule.
The second is the fact that Science, as we all know and recognise, has definite
applications to human welfare, as evidenced by examples in agriculture, knowledge
of heredity etc. An important advance is the invention of plastics, stemming
from the work of a .cientist who was simply interested in studying the structure
of big molecules, an instance of a pure scientific endeavour leading to the

11

