establishment of an industry on a big scale. [n the field of medicine, from the
era of the witch-doctor to the age of modern medicine, there has been
a spectacular leap. There is a third and somewhat sinister way in which Science
has developed in the last sixty years-its application to warfare. It is true to say
that a lot of moder~ Science has come directly out of the needs of War. A good
deal of our knowledge of the mechanism of the brain and of the body has come
from a study of dead and dying men in the threatres of armed conflict. During
the World War I, scientists like Lord Rutherford and ~Sir William Bragg worked
on subsonic devices to combat the submarine m~nace, and these devices are
widely used today. In the exigencies of World War II, aviation reached new
proportions. This Second World also brought the atom bomb into existence.
It came as the consequence of the actual discovery of fission in the laboratory by
Joliot Curie. I was privileged to see this experiment in Paris. The fear that the
opponent may use the atom bomb has led to its wide development. Then came
the hydrogen bomb and with It an atmoshpere of fear, mutual hatred and
recriminatio~. The fear complex has produced a psychological and pathological
state of affairs in the human mind. In many countries, Science has become the
hand-maiden of the War Machine. Rockets are sent up and men walk in space.
It is with feelings of disgust and loathing that I witness this colossal display of
lunacy on the part of mankind. It is a pretence to say that exploits like these
have any scientific value. This is all nothing but militarism thinly disguised.
I heard you pledge that you will not use your knowledge for unworthy ends. If
you were in one of these countries, you would have to use it for unworthy ends,
or you, would lose your job. There are sensitive consciences in those countries
which revolt from this sort of misuse of science. Yet the prostitution of Science
goes on. As a man of Science, my heart is wrung by this tragedy.

THE LESSON OF SELF·RELIANCE
We in this country have no future unless we learn to rely on ourselves
for all that we need. It is far better to go back to the Gandhian age and ride
an ox·cart and throwaway Radio, Television and all the rest of it than to cling,
as we now do, to the coat-tails of European Civilization. If we cannot by our
own efforts make the things that we require, let us do without them. Why
should we buy our Cars from abroad? Or, even import parts? I have tried to
find out if there is any place in India where the most important component part
of aU lamps and Radio Valves-the metallIC filament-is made. This is the starting
point of the whole industry and we do not make this basic ingredient. Let us
wait till we make it before \\Ie buy a single electronic valve from outside. Then
we would learn how to make it. We will learn the lesson of self-reliance ~nd
until we learn it there is no future for us.
:fc

*

J2

=J;

