Exemption From N.e.C. Camp
by Vidya Prakash Agarwal

ONE calm morning in December,

about ten boys are found sitting outside the
Registrar's office. They have divided themselves into two groups and are
talking in whispers. Their voices are just inaudible even to a person sitting 5 ft
from them. Are they planning to do something rowdy? No! All of them have
come to seek exemption from the forthcoming N.C.C. Camp in the '!Vinter. The
clock strikes ten times and a Mr. X rising, says, "Good Heavens! What the
hell is wrong with the Registrar? Is he gonna come or ...... ·,
At that moment, the Registrar strides in coolly and the unfinished sentence
hangs in the air as if cut by a pair of scissors. Mr X stares at him with a gaping
mouth.
The Registrar begins," I know all of you are here to seek exemption from the
N.C.C. Camp. To-day I am not giving anybody any exemption. Whatever the case
Go and attend the camp. Why are you afraid of the camp? . Get out
may be.
everyone of you! Beat the hell out of this place!" After t4is fiery piece of
oration, he goes inside the office.
The first year chaps, 6 in number, terrified by the harshness of the Registrar, walk out with sullen faces. But the second year guys who are as obstinate
as striplings clothed in khaki shorts, stay behind.
After a few moments, Mr. X ventures to go in. He tiptoes upto the door
waits for a second, turns the handle, pushes the door and gets in. As a result of
this, the conversation which ensures between the Registrar and Mr. X is:

Mr. X: "Good morning Sir!."
Registrar (harshly): "Good morning. Did you not hear me outside
when I asked everyone of you to get away?"

Mr. X" V-Yes sir! But--!"
Registrar:

"No buts here! Get out! "

Mr. X: "But sir. Please. This is urgent - top priority - case - sob My mother - sob - sob - expired last night sob - sob. This Telegram says
80- sob - sob." By the end of the sentence he has broken into a weeping fit.
Registrar (rather calmly): "Do not weep here like a sissy! Go, wash your
face and then I shall listen to you".

