The Wing
by VGP

LET me at the outset point out, dear reader, that the following epistle does not
purport to be an erudite dissertation worthy of a 'cranky' skull-and- bone
professor of biology who interlaces his cortical complex with the minute intricacies of the feathered vertebrate's symbolic entity - the wing. On the contrary
this is a mere attempt to make known to the reading public, certain illustrious
Homo Sapiens who, otherwise will fade away from your midst without leaving
a trace. The title, mark you, is an indication that the said Homo Sapiens,
occupy the so called 'wing' of the hostels in this campus.
Let me start with the one who even in a mUltitudinous and disparate
throng, impinges with a rare clarity on your retina, wiping away all the other
images, the reason being that he is endowed with a physique of such proportions
that will make even the best breed of Kathiawar bulls blush. After that first
visual introduction you would normally expect him to be the owner, of vocal
districts that can outstrip any in their acoustic abilities, but nay, he greets you
with a reedy, piping "'Ow do you do?" that does poor justice to his obesity.
He hails from the arid deserts of Rajasthan to which place he owes
allegiance so extreme, that it smacks of unsavoury parochialism. He can at
will. launch a tedious monologue on the architectural splendour of its cities.
Next to himself he loves medicine; the devotion of the application of this
science has won him the title of 'Doc'. Name your trouble, and he will name
the remedy for it - that's him. But it goes without saying that one should not
follow up the remedies he suggests with the same nonchalant alacrity with which
he suggests it.
His one real weakness is his mercurial temper. You press him hard and
he win retaliate with agility which is a little surprising considering the surface
area he enjoys. For instance, if you are involved in the innocent act of removing
a speck from his sparsely populated crown, he is very likely to miscalculate it
as a preplanned attack on his person and reward you with a cowardly right to
your unguarded solar plexus. Such foibles apart, he is a capital fellow, full
of zest for life, and ready to take the ups and downs of life here. Looking
at him one can easily explain the problem of food scarcity facing this subl~

