What is This Supreme Consciousness
by V. Ranganathan

are two ways of accumulating knowledge in this world. One is objective
know1edge, and the other, subjective experience. People in West set about
in quest of the former, whereas the sages in the Bast introverted their mind and
penetrated into the elusive subject of self analysis.
THERE

It we compare our body to a bulb, our intellect which discriminates the
right from the wrong, to the anode and cathode, and our mind which bridges
the gal', to the filament, there is no light, without that vital aspect, "electricit)."
When the supreme consciousness functions through these sense organs, body, mind
and intellect, there is a brilliant expression of life. Just as the electricity has
neither the quality of the blub, nor that of the filament, but without which there
is no lustre, to the blub, similarly the ultimate truth is different from the body,
mind and intellect without which there is no vitality of life.

When you go to a cinema, you concentrate on the screen and become one
with the happenings on the screen. You perceive different colours, you are
carried away by the ever changing flux of happenings and the drifting panorama
on the screen. But do you for one moment look back and think of the cause of
all those happenings 1 It is because, the film moves at a stipulated rate, and more
than that, it is essentially because of the powerful, lustrous arc light behind the
film which is responsible for all the happenings on the screen. Mind
you the arc light itself does not have either the colour or the fluctuating panorama
that the screen reflects. But imagine seeing the film without the arc lights!

If we shift the concentration from the terrestrial to the transcendental, and
introvert our ~ttention, then we see glimpses of this blissful state of permanent
peace, unaffected by the mounting passions, ecstacies of joys and flaring frenzy.
The absolute reality
comprehension.

is beyond words.

Beyond

perception

and

"We do not know it; or rather we cannot put it across before you"
It is both beyond the known and the unknown.
Anything known, is the realm of gross body and subtle body. Unknown
is the causal body. Deep sleep stands for the unknown. Truth is above all

