these levels of consciousness. We know that this "In ot which we talk is
entirely different when we are dreaming. It is not the same self when one is awake.
When 'I' the waker, is not the same 'r the dreamer, which is different from
the 'I' the deep sleeper, how then can this'!' be the waker or the dreamer
or the deep sleeper.
But stiH, this pure consciousness must be approached only through what
we know. On the fourth da.y from new moon, when the beauteous evening slips
away into the night; it is very difficult to see the moon. So, a man showed a
tree and in between the leaves identified the moon. Just as the moon is entirely
different from either the tree or its surroundings, but is still approached with
their help, so can the supreme consciousness be brought to proximity by certain
techniques.
When you go on a newmoon night and stand before the waves, you do not
see anything. The next morning when you go, you see the waves plus the light.
You do not see the waves alone or the light alone. What you see, minus waves,
is the light. Similarly, what you know, minus thoughts, is the consciousness.
As long as Sita was with Rama, the consciousness, she was happy, whether
she wal in Ayodhya or in the jUD,le. But no sooner did she Call a prey to the
desire of the deer, than she was under the susarainty of the ten. headed monster,
You and I, when we ace thus staying away from the devine spark within uS 9
and fall a prey to the temptations of the world, that golden deer, we become
a prey to the Ravana within us, the five senses of perception and the five senses
of action.
Every time you think of the objective world, you become part and
parcel of it. Change your focus and become the very consciousness. Then you
are different from the ordinary life that you lead. Change the concentration to
the seIt You become the self.
Jesus Christ said,

"He that findeth his life loseth it.
He who loselh it for my sake shall find it."
He who has concentrated upon the world of objects in this life, loses
the consciousness. He who loses the world of objects for the sake of consciousnes, finds it..

•

•

