The Trophy Baggers or
Who made all the Noise?
by Duke

IT all started when three young men at ([ f, whom hardly anyone knew, got to ..
gether and decided to form a musical group. These were: Ashley Solomon,
who on returning Rome from the U. K., had, unknown to the customs officials,
ingeniously smuggled in an obsolete clar inet, long since discarded by his ances·
tors; " Jay" Jayaraman, who had more use for the bucket he had borrowed,
than merely washing clothes; and, Alfie D'Souza, who had spent twelve long
years in oblivion, endeavouring to make music with a squeaky violin. It was at
this crucial stage that ,. Ebbie" Sargunar's Hofner guitar formed the group,
bringing along with it accessories, such as Ebbie. The group was named "Beat..X"
Since those good old days, conditions have changed considerably. Alfie
says be now plays some fine chord progressions on the piano, happily oblivious of
the fact that he is seldom heard. Ashley has graduated to an oversized tenor
saxophone. At a recent Inter.. Hostel competition, he was asked to bring it out
merely to impress the judges. Jayaram has a real, live drum set to himself.
After a lot of persuasion, Mohit Goyal joined the group as Rhythm Gintarist,
which accounts for the fact that he is seen rather frequently at the knick.. knack.
Ebbic continues to work on his Guitar Amplifiers, which, he swears will work soon.
Desmond Dunne, who claims to be a tenor-sax. Virtuoso, is their unofficial
manager, namely, he gets blamed for everything that goes wrong.
The Beat - X have made quite a name for themselves in the city, as they
have fared well in many local talent competitions. At last year's "Musical
knockout H, they won the Judges' Trophy, whilst they stood second in the
popular poll. This year, their rivals, the Mustang, turned the tables, and there
was a grand swap of prizes. However, the Beat - X registered another victory at
the All.. India Beat Meet, recently held at the Music Academy.
The Beat - X have always wanted to be a group that plays a different kind
of music, and in this way they are unique. They have ventured out into Jazz,
and have attempted pieces like H Take five" and "Desafinado", which have never
been trj~d by other local ~roups. This has cost them a lot of popular votes. J\

60

