recent survey has revealed that they have a few other fans besides the members of
their families. However, at the big shows in town, they have played a lot of pop
music, with, nevertheless, their own characterisitc touch, that lays a stress on
improvisation. This had redeemed th~m in the popularity polls, as indicated at
the last "Musical Knockout"
0

The boys are very sensitive about their music. They always work out
their own arrangements of the tunes they play, and strive hard to improve on
them. Ashley is very critical about the tone he gets on bis sax. He once broke
down when the reproduction on a maladjusted taperecorder sounded like Alfie's
violin. Jayaram has spent many hours in class trying to evolve his own
beat. His 17/32 beat caused much consternation in Tapti circles. Alfie
claims to be influenced mainly by Dave Brubeck, possibly because that
is the only big name in Jazz that he has heard. Mohit once spent hours working out the chords of " Desafinado ", only to discover that he had learnt them in
the wrong Key! Poor Ebbie still does not know why the Shadows have never been
featured on the V.O.A. Jazz Hour. He is, however, very devoted, and puts in a
lot of eifort, when working out his Bass Solos.
Always called on to play at very short notice, the boys find very little
time to practise, what with the hectic seven - hour routine in class. Besides, the
inadequacy of their sound equipment and space for practice has proved to be a
constant problem. However, thanks to the unceasing efforts of Prof. Varghese
and Dr. Rouve, conditions are definitely improving.
The Beat - X have recently started singing, too~ and even here they have
their own characteristic sytle, as they restrict themselves to folk Music. They
have been able to provide us at the Institute with many hours of entertainment,
and they did well to redeem our reputation at the Bombay Meet. Who knows
how many years will pass before lIT gets another group that can, to say the least~
hold their own, in music?

*

*

21

*

