Who is likely to contribute more to
civilisation-the scientist or the artist?

THE Scientist is a comparatively new species of specialised men,

and he comes
late in history. Artists have existed for thousands of years and vielded
enormous influence in the civilisation of their times. It is quite difficult to judge
which of the two is likely to contribute more to civilisation.
To understand the problem, it is necessary to consider what the term 'civil isation' connotes. It stands for all the human values and ideals which have
j nspired men for thousands of years. Art is only a part of civilisation. The ways
of life of the people constitute the sum and substance of civilisation.
In the ancient civilisations, Scientists did not play a significant part; any
one who was fired with scientific imagination and a spirit of reasoning was .given
only the freedom to choose his way of death. Scientific and religious interests
were often at war, and since the latter formed the basis of civilisation in those
days, the scientist was curbed from playing an active part in contributing to
civilisation..
Such a state of affairs no longer exists; the place of men of science is
recognised in any society and with material advancement, the scientists have begun
to playa more dominant part in the lives of people. It is true that artistic creations ar~ still!appreciated and the various delineations of art still continue to imbue
them with inspiration, but it is equally true that the scientist has carved for himself a niche in contemporary affairs.
The contributions of the scientist and the artists to civilisation therefore
vary with the times. The spirit of the times forms a decisive factor in judging
whether or not artistic values predominate over scientific reasoning; and the
predominence of either or both of these values determine the nature of the civilisation of the times, which in effect is the spirit of the times. Hence the problem becomes very difficult to analyse because by its very nature, it is a vicious
circle and our deductions depend on our starting premises.
It has taken man thol1sands of years to give credit to Archimedes for his
scientific discoveries and inventions, but due credit was given to him anyhow.

