Posterity will continue to be enthralled by his resourcefulness and ingenuity,
and will honour him as a pioneer of science. On the other hand, the " Immortal"
paintings of Michaelangelo, Da Vince, Cazane and others change their values with
the spirit of the times. To a civilization which appreciates one form of painting,
or in general, a particular form of art, the achievements of another civilization in
the same fields may seem monstrous. This is not the case with scientists whose
theories can only be proved or disproved. The bases of judging the artistic and
scientific achievements therefore differ and it is difficult to analyse their relative
merits.

Our civilisation is purely a materialistic one. The comforts and convenience we enjoy were beyond the wildest dreams of our forbears. This is due
wholly to the advancement of science with the times. Enjoying all our comforts
we owe to the progress of science, we are apt to overlook the cultural advancement which has made our lives really enjoyable. Without art man is a cipher:
Without scientific advancement, life is hell. Uoth these therefore are very important
factors in judging the growth of civilisation. Without art, science is meaningless,
and without science, life itself is devoid of glamour. It is difficult to find out
how these two control human activities, but it is needless to lay stress on their
importance.
Take away science from our lives, and we can still exist; but take away art
from our lives~ then life becomes impossible. Art has been the mother of science;
it hasalso been the fountainhead of inspiration for man. What distinguishes man
from animals is the cultural inheritance the former has had and the latter has
not had. What distinguishes one society from another is the scientific advancement
one has had and the others have not had. Hence we fin~ that art is the more
important of the two when we consider the progress of mankind. The role that
artists play in human life is therefore the more important. Scientific advance ..
ment is a mere expression of man's intelligence. Artistic temperament
is his natural legacy and decides his very existence. Art is man added to nature
and it is to art, therefore, that we owe our civilised existence.

*

*

24

*

