Does India Need
more Tecbnologists than Scientists?
-Need for Technicians
By Gautam Mabajan
today is a country of needs, of wants, of desires, of idealism, of misery,
of yearning, often dwelling in the glory of its past, often dreaming of the
future, but rarely catering to its immediate problems. No country in the world
is as dependant on Nature as India is. From time immemorial, India has depended
on the monsoons, those rain bearing clouds that give life to the cracked and
parched brown soil of India, that bring smiles on the face of the peasants, gaiety
i. the gambolling of children; and also! which also bring death when there is too
much of it, or too little of it. India has always suffered from too little or too much
of monsoons. If monsoons fail, there is famine. If there is an excess of monsoons
there are floods. Everyone knows this-but to this day we have not remedied this.
Interlinked with this Is the need for food and nourishment. We need more and
more fertilisers-we need, therefore, to lay more emphasis on ~esearch and
industry, and to treat agriculture as it rightly should be - our most important industry. Industrialisation and research must go hand in hand. We cannot afford to
neglect either. But for both we need trained men - dedicated men - men with fresh
ideas, men with ability-capable of shaking off the fetters of tradition and superstition, men who will pave the way for an lndia which will be the envy of the India
of the past - a land of milk and honey. To man our research stations and
industrial plants we need scientists and engineers; which is more important,
we shall presently see.
INDIA

We have been guilty in the past in treating agriculture as a craft, and not
as an industry. To ..day, as never before, we need agricultural engineers and technologists, who will be able to bring new ideas to the common peasant, technologists
who win be able to show the peasants a better way of life. These will be men
who will work with their hands, men who will mingle with the soil of India and
so hold in their hands the destiny of India. These will be men trained in extensive cultivation, soil mechanics, fluid mechanics, men who will be ready to hold
their own against nature, men who will fight against misery, starvation and death.
These so called agro-civil engineers have done a first rate job in Japan. They are
bound to succeed in India. At the same time we should not neglect our frontiers.

25

