Today we are hemmed in on our northern borders by antagonisitic and quarrelsome neighbours. To defend our nation we need a well equipped army. To keep
the army supplied we need a sophisticated defence industry. To this end we
need technologists who will be able to give the army what they need. To keep
the peasants and the army comfortable we should be able to supply goods which
will help them to live in comfort. The need for engineers attached to the
consumer industry cannot be too amply stressed. Along with this we need a
strong batch of technologists to man our heavy engineering plants These are the
backbone of a nation. The strength of a nation depends on what it produces. It
depends on the amount by which it is independent of other nations.
If India is to be independent of other nations, it is imperative that its
scientists should be able to supply new ideas to the industry:which the latter can
develop. Take the case of the agricultural industry Hardy strains of rice have
been produced, such as that the grain is half an inch long. This yields much more
to the acre than we can dream of. However, the agro ..civil engineers have not
been able to utilise this strain of paddy. At the moment scientists at the Indian
Institute of Applied Agricultural Research are trying to develop a strain suitable
for Indian conditions. What we need is better quality stuff, and people who can
see to it that quality products are produced in sufficient quantities. This is true
in all our industries. In the Defence industry, research is becoming increasingly
important. Eveft five or seven years ago, how many of us were interested in the
Himalayas, apart from the fact that 'it is there' (to borrow Sir Edmund Hillary's
famous. saying). Today out of sheer necessity our scientists are trying to find out
more and more about this Himalayas because our army is there, trying to defend
our frontiers. The Central Food and Technological Research Institute has done
yeomen work in finding out the type of food necessary in these regions, their
packing and distribution. In other industries also research is most important.
How long can we keep on using the crutches of foregin depen~ance? How long
can we keep on buying license rights? Have we not learnt the lessons of the
brilliant research done by the Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute and
the Central Mechanical Research Institute by which we have saved foreign
exchange to the tune of ten crores per annum? But what recognition bas been
given to tbese scientists? one wishes to know.
c

To be recognised, applauded and praised is second nature to human beings.
It is perhaps one of the reasons why people are willing to work hard. That is
why most people try to become technologists or scientists. We have seen that both
are necessary for progress. To say one is more important than the other is absurd.
It is like King Lear trying to find out wbiph of his daughters loves him best. The
technologist and scientist - ah E why this distinction, (as if they are two different
entities) have almost the same goals. It is silly to think of them as different. It

26

