is like trying to split education into two - the teacher and the taught. The
engineer is a man of applied science. He is dependent on the scientist, for he it is
who supplies him with ideas. But then it is the technologist who produce~ the
article and hence feeds the scientist. Today India cannot afford too many scientists.
It cannot pay for all that the scientist wants - Indhl is not willing to take the
risk. But without taking the risk is it possible for us to take the big leap forward?
Sooner or later, India will realise that it cannot do without research, as it cannot
do without industry. Today, the time has come to strike a balance between
technologists and scientists. In the United States a happy balance has been achieved.
In the Massachuesettets Institute of Technology there are too thousand postdoctoral fellows in sceince and an equal number in technology.
ID concluding, we should like to stress that India's need is not so much for
technologists or for secintists, but for technicians - men who are willing to work
with their hands, menwho have a knowledge of science and know how to apply this
knowledge, men who know their problems and how to tackle them, for these are
the men in the long run who run a nation, these are the middle-men responsible
for our progress. Even if we do have many scientists doing excellent work, and
technologists, we do not have the backbone for progress. We have the head, but
not the body. Thus what we need today is a balance between scientists and
technologists in the country; these will then be able to hand over the task to the'
technician and so make the impact of progress felt on the common people.
Because technologists and scientists are not enough-they are like the excellent
windows which let in no lights, the passages that lead nowhere (with apologies to
Thomas Gray), more developed countries than ours have progressed by going in
for technicians and not worrying their heads about who is more important - the
scientist or the technologist!

*

*

27

