A Mystery
Symons was cruelly murdered in a dark alley. Only two men were present
at the scene of action, both suitors of Jane. They were Harry Smothers and Paul
Hendron, both of good extraction, excellent education and equally good financial
standing. Both werc handsome. Only one of them could have killed her!

JANE

The fatal single shot was fired at 9.57-(the beat cop heard it). Running
steps were also heard and the cop saw both Paul and Harry standing near the
body. Paul had a smoking revolver which was obviously the murder weapon, in
his hand.
Fortunately, Arctine Hendricks, the chief deteotive was also at hand. He
heard the shot just as he was leaving the house of one of his friends. He arrived
at the scene of action at precisely ten p.rn and took charge of the situation
immediately.
He proceeded to an on... the-spot inquiry. The first statement came from
Harry. He said, "Mr. Officer, Jane and I had been to dinner and I dropped her
at the corner. Then as 1 watched her proceed down the alley I saw somebodyelse creeping behind her and following her. As it is my duty to protect my fiancee
from any possible danger (this evening she had promised to marry me), I got out
of my car and J too followed her. Precisely at 9'57 (I noticed the time in my
wrist watch) I heard a shot and hurried, only to see Paul with the gun. That as
far as I know is the sequence of the events."
Paul who was listening with an ammused and indifferant look ventured to
say, "The story that Harry told you is perfect except, that I was with Jane.
Ofcourse I did not see anybody following her and when I heard the shot I ran and
found her dead It is a fact I took the pistol to look at it when the cop came
along. Other than that I have nothing to say".
Hendriks did not know what to do. Here were two perfect gentlemen who
did not accuse each other directly, but implied by their statements that the other
had murdered Jane because of obvious jealously He came out of the alley and in
the light he chanced to see them more clearly. Harry noted the time in his
watch and hastily concealed it. He then said. "I am sorry Smothers, I have to
arrest you as the murderer of Miss. Jane Symons. Your whole statement though
pre-thought and is absolutely possible, I think you made a mistake in not winding your watch and it has stopped at 6, as I observe. More than that it does not
have a luminons dial and your assertion of time happened to be correct because of
a freak chance. You will not commit mistakes anymore".
"Gentlemen, such are the facts surrounding the murder of Jane Symons.
But for Harry's mistake either it could not be solved at all, or Paul would
have been convicted. Of course, I do not deny Hendricks had a brilliant mind
which saw and observed".

Good story-eh? !

