On Obscenity and Fiddle Sticks
by Vijaya Reddy

IN England, the womb of democracy,

Lady Chatterley's Lover is in the dock.
In the United States, the green house of 20th century renaissance, Ginzburg,
the publisher of Eros is serving a five-year jail sentence. In Ita1y, the hotbed of
classical romanticism, film actress Gina Lollobrigida lives with the threat of a
spell in jail. In Pakistan one may not wear tight fitting apparel. In India one
may not kiss on the screen.

D. H. Lawrence in that masterpiece of prose only brought to life a class
of people from Britain's society; the way they lived; the words they spoke.
What he wrote was not far from the truth. In prosecuting his historical work,
the British prosecuted a part of themselves. Publisher Ralph Ginzburg's Eros,
which serialised such classics as "Kama Sutra" and "Fanny Hill" was acclaimed
by the intellectuals of his country as a significant contribution to the cause of
literature. The Supreme Court found him guilty of "the sor;:did busines of
pandering". All that Gina Lollobrigida did was to appear, a mite scantily
covered, on the soreen, as so many women do appear in real life in so many
places and on so many different occasions. The deputies in the Parliament
came down upon her as if she were a sorceress sent to steal the chastity of the
Italian people. All that the Indian movie director ask of society in that his
actors and actresses screen the agelong gesture of affection -the kiss.
But no! They are criminals; enemies of the society, cancers in the
community. Prohibit them, censor them, control them, punish them, jail
them! The necklines are too low. Pull them up! That scene shows too
much, that song says too much; clip-clip-clip! Every where, it is society in panic,
a misled society on the defensive. Obscenity has become a stupid obsession
with communities round the world.
Obscenity is an image in the mind; it does not exist outside the mind.
What may seem obscene to one may seem divine to another. Take the topless for
example. If one wears topless in the bazaars today, one does so with equal
chances of being mobbed or ending up in the cooler. Five thousand years ago,
in the dawn of our civilization, it was a daily occurrence in Mohenjodaro for
women to go about topless in the wide promenades and the m~ did Dot mob

29

