l

them or the police arrest them. Why five thousand years ago ? Go now to
New Guinea and there toplessness is a way of life, not a fad of the sensation
seekers.
It seems as if the test for obscenity is to measure the quantity of sex. In
fact, one is led to believe that no field of human involvement is obscenity. Like
photosynthesis, like digestion, sex is a vital function of life, an instinct of life. As
eighty year old U. S. Supreme Court Justice Black pleaded "Sex isa fact of life".
What is more, sex is the essence of immortality of mao, his perpetuator. There can
be nothing obscenee about sex, in words about sex, in talk about sex, in thoughts
about sex-about sex in all its forms. Sex is so important to man, psychologically
that he is doing himself no good when he is so secretive and shy of it. People
write about it and read about it as if it were a mystery, a taboo. The more
wantonly sex is furnished as a topic from public discussion, exhibition and
publication, the more definitely does it bee orne the object of profane contemplation and perverse imagination.
To simplify what cannot be simplifi~d, men define things they are not sure
about. The Supreme Court of a certain country says it recognizes obscenity when
"the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest in the average adult". It does sound sharp and smart as do all definitions. For thousands of years, in jungles, in caves, through storm and flood,
man, woman and sex have co-existed and fruitfully, I daresay. Is it not an insult
to man's integtiy of mind if after thousands of year of evolution he cannot be
trusted
read a few lines in a book, to see an image on the screen, to look at
a photograph in a magazine? Delivering the dissenting judgement in the Ginzburg
case, Justice Potter Stewart declared, "Censorship reflects a society's lack of
confidence in itself. The constitution protects course expression as well as
refined vulgarity no less than elegance. A book worthless to me may convey
something of value to my neighbour. In the free society to which our constitut ion has committed us, it is for each to choose for himself."

to

In India, thi~ fallacy of equivalaace of obscenity and sex bas been pu~hed
to inordinate lengths. The Government has intervened massively in an area of
responsibility that is essentially personal, at worst, social. It decides for the
people what they shall not read in books. Wbat they shall not see on the
screen. The stark irony of it all is that in trying to hide what they think is
obscene, they have given birth to an obscenity of a worse nature. The
domestic films are classic test cases. What ingenious loopholess have the
costume men found to dodge the censorship rules, but to catch the eager eyel
What techniques of the camera, what sugggestive situations have the film makers

