The Experience of Mr XVengeance after death
AN interesting and invigorating discussion was

under way, on the truth or
otherwise of the existence of spirits or ethereal beings. The subject, bizarre
as it might seem, was taken up by a conglomerate group of well-nigh middle aged
persons at a week.end get-together at Mr. X's residence.

"I, for one, have no belief in the sway of the supernaturals, nor am I
prepared to be taken in by any prodigiously concocted figments, however convincing and from however much an authoritative and reliable a source", said the
practical-minded sceptic Mr. Y of modernity.

"In fact, whatever is professed to have been seen in this regard by some is,
but the projection of the gruesome haunts, and hallucinations obsessing their
minds," interpolated another gentleman.
"Anyhow"the reasoning in support of the belief in the influence of the
dead does strain the credulity, and offend the common sense. It does not enter
intothe domain of my prehensility", put in another.

"I object to the initiation into all this stuff, whether it be true or not, of
young people, especially those of weak spirit, insufficient courage and of gullible
disposition. Their normal strength is enervated, their faith in the invincibility of
their souls becomes flabby, and what more, in extreme cases, they fall victims to
acute psychosis with their minds affected with ghastJy imageries, and bedevilled
by unnatural and unwholesome instincts", expounded Mr. Z
"The purer the mind, the freer it is from such unwelcome thoughts. Any act
done against the conscience remains dormant in the subconscious, coercing the
person into remorse, plunging him into sadness whenever something or other, by
way of a crude, ugly reminder of the past misdeed is encountered,·' was yet
another opinion.
"Such as are incarcerated in painful memories of their criminal acts, and
spend sleepless nights, invoke the existence of evil spirits by way of a palliative
explanation of the unease and the intense anxiousness weighing upon their
minds".

32

