Thus several opinions and arguments were hurled forth from one to the
other. Mr. X was the only abstainer from the controversy. He seemed absorbed
in his own thoughts, deeply immersed in c~ogitation. About the time his reticence
started making itself felt, he cleared his throat and looked around. When the
disputation ceased and silence prevailed, signifying others' readiness to listen to
him, Mr. X said, " Whatever your opinions are, gentlemen, on the subject under
consideration, I, with no dogmatic assertion, would like to relate an incident
which, to this day, appears queer and eerie. It all happened about 15 years ago,
in the village of Mayfield. 50 miles from London, where I was convalescing after
a severe attack of typhoid".
Leaving aside their differences, and points of disagreement, all those
assembled screwed up their ears, for, Mr. X had a flair for narration. He was
gifted for painting life-like verbal panoramas of his spicy experiences, or of what
he heard and saw.
"It was during a winter; hardly had five to six days gone by since the
assault of a blizzard on Mayfield. The snow was quite heavy. It was a trying
experience for anyone to be on night duty. The station being small, had only
five people on the railway staff. Two porters, station master W. Mathews, signal
and pointsman, David Johnstone, and a watchman.

"Mathews was sitting in his room attending to some filt!s by the dim light
of a candle. All of a sudden, he heard the door burst open and looked up with
a start. David, the pointsman, throwing his hefty, robust body against the door,
barged in. The door, being old, squawked on its hinges, produdng a sound
savouring of a crash. His pace was unsteady, his countenance haggard and
registering the shock of having witnessed something deeply unpleasant and, to say
the least, weird and terrorising. Moreover, he was in the clutches of excruciating
agony, and belching forth a stream of incoherent words almost tantamount to a
wail, staggered and finally fainted. Mathews held him from falling and, after
issuing orders for fetching a doctor, set about his first-aid treatment. The doctor
came after 15 minutes. He promptly administered the necessary treatment, thereby
quickening the pace of attaining consciousness. After a few minutes of relaxation,
David ventured to speak, but was effectually intercepted and calmed by a signal
from Dr. James. James opined that the accident was the result of severe nervous
shock presumably associated with some untoward incident, and that, the vestige
of nervous exhaustion not having completely died out of the victim's features, it
was advisable that no attempts at the recapitulation of the awful causative
experience be made.
The doctor was gone. David slept the night in Mathews' room. Next
morning, Mathews and he breakfasted upon bread and black coffee. David was
5

