fresh with renewed nerve and vivacity after a night of sound sleep. FiJlding him
quite fit for conversation, Mathews asked him about the previous nighf's accid ent.
David, evidently shuddering at the remembrance of this contretemps, recounted
the whole thing to Mathews. He said:

"I can't vouchsafe the reality of what 1 saw.

Nevertheles~, I "think' I had

that bizarre experience. I was some distance from the station upon a ~hort
ramble. Suddenly, while passing the tea-shop, I fell uneasy. I had a distinct
impression of being followed. The thing was heavy on my mind~ and with my
moving farther and farther away from the tiuy bit of humanity clustering round
the tea-stand, the following foot-falls became more and more audible. When I
was for turning back to see who was on my trail, I felt somebody's presence in
the 'front', and instantly looked up. I was surprised to have not noticed his
presence until then or probably, he appeared just then, suddenly materialising out
of darkness, as it were, by magic. Added to the tension of loneliness and disquieting thoughts within, was something about his appearance which disconcerted meqaite a lot. Upon observing him at close quarters; I became speechless. 1 closed
my eyes. My blood congealed. My throat was gurged from terror. For, what 1 saw
was an extremely pale, bloodless countenance with dishevelled hair and protruding
eyes. It was lifeless. Gathering my spirits and renewing my courage, I opened
my eyes again, my whole body shivering from cold and fear alike. The apparition
was not to be seen! Without once turning my head, I came running headlong to

your room'a.
uDavid's narration disturbed Mathews a lot.. It had in it a suggestion of
the pervasion of some unearthly influence, most probably evil. He could not
reconcile himself to the strange, unbelievable possibilities which David~s
experience indicated. Anyway, he wanted to be careful so as not to hazard a
premature opinion. He asked "How was he dressed (! Did he resemble anybody
known to you?

"No sir, I can't tell you with,certainty whether I recognized the countenance
or not. But, as to his attire, I have a very dim recollection of having taken
him to be an Engine driver. I am sorry I can't add anything more
This, however, did not help Mathews make much out of the narration..
He was not sure how much was true, and how much of it could be dbmissed as
the product of frenzied imagination abetted by fear. Mathews, though naturally
prone to the inevitable conclusion that the whole thing was a manifcstion of a
disordered mind caused by nervous breakdown, was not cent percent tiure about
his own prudence in making light of it ; for, David was a stolid person of fine
constitution. He did not have a wagging tongue. The stability of his mentalmake-up was reliableo He was bolder, oC a more enterprising disposition than

Mathews.

