Anyhow, no amount of t'ethmking appeared to be fl'uitful, and as such, the
matter was dropped. Everybody thought it best to let it pass into oblivion.

"Mathews granted a few days' leave to David at the latter's request, to
stay with his parents, who were livil!g about 30 miles Northward. As dissemi..
nation of any rumours was discreetly avoided, there was the usual normalcy every
where. David's job was shared by the porters.
"Four days went by after David's departure. On the fifth day morning,
Mathews received a letter from David. Though a letter was not unexpected,
Mathews was very excited about it in view of its running to a few pages. He
opened the lock, went into his room, closed the door behind him and started read.
ing it in privacy. It read, more or less~ as follows;
"Dear Mr. Mathews,

I write this to inform you of a very queer incident which has perpetuated
the unpleasant memory of that horrible happening in Mayfield. On my way down
here, I got down at a small stop to have some edibles to que} my hunger.
After the necessary refreshment, which consisted of washing down my throat a
few slices of bread with a cup of black coffee, I walked to my compartment. I
always travel second class, as you know. There were: only two second class
compartments, by the way. I did not look up until a few feet from the door step.
When I did so, believe it or not, I found to my profound hOffor, the familiar
apparition perched on the door-step. The stern, ruth!ess, uncompromising
stare from its two protruding eyes was unnerving. I stepped back with a half..
stifled scream, my inexplicable behaviour astonished a few who, seeing nobody
in the direction pointed out by me, looked upon me with half suspicion and half
derision. The form was visible to me only!
I, not daring to confront the enigmatic, grissly stare once ag~in, scurried
into the only other 2nd class compartment. The carriage was empty but for a
handsome couple. My noisy entrance made them look at me. They were, bow..
ever, soon engaged in whispering sweet nothings into each others ears. They
were too blinded to the surroundings to take notice of my condition. I soon
regained my composure and as the train had by then left the station and was on
the run, approached them hesitatingly for water. Brought to this world the
couple, for the first time, felt my tiredness and exhaustion, and helped me with
some whisky as they didn't carry water.
This gave me a break to get to know them. Their names were rc..
vealed to me as Reynold and Ursula. Reynold was a dark-haired, blue..eyed, handsome person of 26; he was an Engine driver. He had been married about 8
months. Ursula was an attractive blonde, green eyed and 22 years of age. They

