were, on the whole, an attractive couple of winsome appearance, and prepossessing behaviour and carriage. They were enjoying a short vacation which they
had been expending over jolly trips. I asked if they had been to Mayfield
and commented on its considerable natural beauty. I proposed that it was an
eminently consentaneous spot for youthful lovers.
"Oh! I used to go there sometime, until eleven months ago. I was staying
with my friend Johnny, then an Engine driver. We had been chums right from
infancy; we studied together, and later, pursued different careers. Johnny did
well as an Engineer driver, while I was a miserable failure as a businessman,
whereupon I decided to join the railway service, and went to put up with him
for some time, It was there that I first met Ursula, who had come on a school
picnic along with her class mates. We took a fancy to each other, and love
grew in the salubrious atmosphere of the ineffably beautiful gardens, meadows
and fields lush with crops. Johnny was cross about it; probably he wanted Ursula
who, I came to know, was a relative of his. But, out of affection for me,
he did not .cross my path, though, I knew that it affected him quite a lot.
Anyhow, fate willed that he should not live to see our wedding, for a
month before our marriage following my employment in railways, he was
cruelly snatched away from us by his death in a train accident. This unfortunate accident developed in me an aversion to Mayfield. Subsequently, I
managed to leave the place on transfer, and am in no mood to ever visit that
village again".
'The conversation had to be broken as my destination lhad arrived I
took leave of them. There was an upsurge of thoughts in my mind as a result
of my fortuitous meeting with the couple. I marshalled my recollections of
the trip. I had heard about the accident of which, I had no first hand knowledge having been employed at Mayfield only for the last 6 months. Both you
and I have thus heard it from others, and of course, read of it in the dailies.
Johnny's train collided with an Engine owing to ill-timed pointing and changing
of rails, and his death was instantaneous.
Probably it was Johnny's ghost
that I had ~ncountered, by now, twice. I also place before you that, but for
my second confrontation with the apparition that actually induced me to enter
the only other 2nd class compartment, I would not have won the acquaintance
of the couple. Or, was it a strange coincidence? Though all these connections were working upon my mind all the time the conversation was going on,
I dared not dismiss my misgivings and suspicions without proper confir
matory evidence. By the time I had made up m) mind, I had to get down.
Despite my outward complacency, I am not able to shake off the irresistible
premonition signifying danger to the lives' of the couple. I am convinced that,

36

