in the event of my suspicions becoming true, the chain of incidents unmistak.
ably indicates a rapacity for evi1, a predatory vengefulness on Johnny's part,
in the burning fire of which Reynold and Ursula might be scorched. Despite
the seeming coherency and reasonablness of these speculations, I can't rule
out the possiblity of my overimagining the whole scheme.
'But, why should the apparition reveal itself to me, driving me crazy?
What have I to do with all this? My mind is very disturbed. I shall try my
best to forget everything during my brief stay with my parents.
Very sincerely,
DAVID

"The letter left Mathews numb for a while. He feared that there was
something unpleasant in store for them all. Anyhow he decided not to f.uss about
it, but to be discreet. He wouJd wait till David came back.
"A week later David returned. There was nothing strange about him to
observers at the first sight. But, to those who knew him well, he appeared a bit
enigmatic in his behaviour. There was an under current of mental unrest and
agitation in him. Often he was lost in fierce thinking and ominous silence, in the
course of a lively chat. He was no longer his old self. He went about doing
things rather mechanically. Mathews felt that he moved about in a set. way,
as if some power dictated every small bit of his movements, speeches and even
reactions to others' talk. Of course, he talked much less than before. He was
gradually getting more and more aloof. He talked of nothing other than
things pertaining to business. Even to Mathews, his long and trusted friend,
he held himself incommunicado. His eyes gradually started wearing a far away
look. With passage of time, he seemed more and more withdrawn into his
ownself. His appearance became more terrible to look at. He showed displeasure
at any body's overture to conversation. Mathews concluded that he was possessed.
Medical aids of all sorts were sought, but in vain. All conceivable means of
affording succour to him, and instilling the same old vivacity and enthusiasm
ended in a deplorable fiasco.
"It was not possible to recommend him to a mental asylum, for, he seemed
in considerable control of his senses. Notwithstanding his eccentric mannerisms,
sinister movements and slovenly disposition, he was as prompt and regular in
the discharge of his incumbent duties as ever. His zeal for punctuality and
exactitude remained undamped.

"A few days rolled by. His colleagues thought it advisable to wait for a
few more days before taking any drastic decision. Anyway, they were of the
opinion that some calamity of serious implications bad befallen him, and that he

31

