would recover in due course. But Mathews, well aware as he was of David's
experiences and further being David's sole confidant, sensed something evil.
He strove hard to penetrate David's reticence, but failed. He cursed himself
for his inability to do anything. He impatiently awaited the developments
HAt last the denouement came, ghastly and terrifving. All the anxieties
ended in a horrible way. On Sunday morning at 2 A. M. Patrick, the porter,
rushed Mathews to where David usually used to be. To their profound horror, both
saw him standing between the rails with the train bound to Duncan hardly 100
feet away. Before anybody cou1d reach him, David threw himself across when,
amidst the noisy remonstrations and vehement gesticulatory warnings the train
ran over him, crushing him into an unrecognizable fleshy mass. His last
unearthly screams pierced the cars of the two onlookers, curdling their blood, on
top of the sonorous breathing of the Engine. The train ran he'ldlong into the
engine stationed for being taken to the yard. It was too late when it was
discovered that the necessary sidetracking onto another pair of rails leading to
Duncan had not been accomplished. The collision was unavoidable. David had
been responsible for the sinful decimation and destruction of the harmless
travellers. Or, was it a really a conscientious lapse on his part? Could he not
have been coerced into this monstrous perpetration?

"Among the dead were a handsome young man, blue.eyed and about 26
years of age, and an attractive, green-eyed blonde. An assiduous search brought
out a purse containing their antographed photograpbs, some of them taken at
their wedding. , Enclosed therewith were also a few more papers of identification
which furnished their names as Reynold and Ursula, and further, Reynold's
profession as that of an Engine driver.
"The accident was imputed to 'mental derangement tending to Homicidal
Mania', on the part of David. Thus the police did away with the case, and
closed the relevant official files.
"Mathews, sitting alone in his room, ruminated over Johnny's insidious
possession of the innocent victim David. David was instrumental in accomplish..
ing the terrible, inhuman revenge born of Johnny's blood thirstiness and, in that
process, had done himself in. "'hat struck Mathews was the diabolical (onsi,·
tency that marked the whole scheme reaching its eli max in a hideous simulation
of a fact that had killed Johnny about twelve months ago. Both had occasioned
carnage to an abominable degree. All of a sudden, an idea lurked in Mathews'
mind. Was it exactly a year ago that Johny died? Ah, Yes! to complete
Mathews' amazement and satisfy him of the efficacy of the Demon's influence, he
found that Johnny died 'exactly' a year ago, on precise1y the same ,ate, though
not of course, about the same time.

