The Deer Ones
T. Varadarajan

IF you had not

known about the recent nation-wide agitation against deer
slaughter it was neither the mistake of the deer nor that of the agitators. It
all started with a report by the Security Officer that deer-shooting was soing on
in the campus. Immediately, the Institute Administration issued an official order
banning shooting of deer, or for that matter any quadruped or biped within the
campus and sent copies of the order to the Government of India, Ministry of
Education, for their kind information. The Ministry officials could not, for a
moment, decide as to what to do with that copy of the O. O. received from
Madras. However, the paper in question was transferred to the All-India Board
of Animal Education for study and necessary action.
The A. I. B. A. E., in turn, sent out circulars to all State Boards, asking
for statistics (to be submitted ~in triplicate in the prescribed form) regarding the
exact Dumber of deer living in the forests of the respective States. On the
recommendation of the A. I. B. A. E. the Government of India constituted a
Special Committee under the Chairmanship of a Leather Technologist to study
the question and submit a report urgently.
Meanwhile, an Oppostion Member in the Lok Sabha put this question to
the Minister concerned: "Is the Hon'ble Minister aware that shooting of deer in
the lIT (Madras) campus is on the increase; if so, what steps does the Govt.
propose to take to stop this?" The Minister, replied as usual that he had no information on the subject and the question of a legislation for banning deer slaughter
did not arise. This statement was enough to spark off strong protests from the
Opposition-the ruling party members all in one voice, tried to pacify the
opposition members. Pandemonium prevailed in the House, which was
adjourned by the Speaker for ten minutes. When the House reassembled, the
Opposition demanded a full-day debate on the issue but this was not granted by
theSpeaker. Then the rest of the formalities such as thumping of desks, shouting,
swearing at one another, naming of members by the Speaker, walk-outs, the
Marshall bodily removing the members out of the hall, were all gone through in
perfect order. Throughout this confusion, the ruling party members did not
forget to shout back at the Opposition "Shame, Shame".
The next day, newspapers were full of reports about the country-wide
agitation against deer-slaughter. The Government's attitude in not preventing

41

6

