what was going on was criticised and a Committee for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Deeer was formed. Processions were taken out in various cities urging the
ban on deer-shooting and demanding that the Government resign if they were not
able to stop it. All forms of a national agitation were in full progress throughout
the country and reports of mob-violence and police atrocities were in circulation
The Madras Government informed the Centre that since the I. I. T. was a Government of India institution, the responsibitity fully rested with the Centre and that
they were helpless in the matter. The Prime Minister however, at a Press
Conference declared that animal wealth is a State subject. The P. M. also denied
that there was any proposal to transfer the I. I. T. to the control of the State Govt.
k

The All-India Deer Samrakshana Samiti, in the meantime, approached a
religious leader to commence a fast unto death, till the Govt. prohibits by law
shooting of deer. The Secretary of the Swamiji was reported to have told the
Samiti that the Swamiji was already on fast almost daily either due to religious
reasons or due to non-avai1ability of rations. However, the Swamiji was
ultimately persuaded to start the fast. The Bharat Meat-Eaters Association
protested against all this and announced its decision to start a counter· agitation
in favour of deer-slaughter. The President of the B. M. E. A. instantly launched
a venison eating programme. Newspapers carried reports daily about the
physical condition of both the Swamiji and the B. M. E. A. President. The
reports indicated thet the Swamiji was losing weight at the rate of lIb. per day
while the President of the B. M. E. A. put on lib. daily.
While this was the situaiton in India, let us see what the international
reaction to this trouble in India was.
A report from Washington said that the promised allotment of 12 million
tons of wheat for India would not be made available immediately, in view of the
conditions prevailing in India. However, at a Press conference, the President
refused to be drawn into the controversy when questioned about the
change of policy of the U. S. Govt. with regard to aid to India. He made it
clear that the present situation in India had no bearing with increased supply of
millitary e(}uipment to Pakistan.
'Pravda' reported from Moscow that at a reception held by the Indian
Ambassador in honour of the visiting Snake-Charmers' Goodwill Delegation to
the U. s. S. R., the Russian President was reported to have said that he was very
much concerned about the activities of the reactionary forces engaged in
subversive activities in India and declared that the Western Imperialism should
be smashed from raising its ugly head.
The Hinsua News Agency reportea from Tokyo that according to some
usually reliable sources, Chairman Mao-tse-Tung, at a Peoples' Rally in Peking,

42

