strongly condemned the action of the reactionary Government in India in trying
to put an end to the Indian peoples' just demand for the protection of an animal.
"This struggle of the proletarians in India against the bourgeois bureaucracy of
the Indian Govt. is bound to succeed as any other struggle for freedom against
Western imperialism", he said. In a broadcast monitored in Tokyo, Pekin:
Radio was reported to have said: "Our comrades in the Socialist Republic of
Pakistan) along with the freedom fighters from China, will always share with
sympathy the feeHngs of the Indian people. Success can always be achieved as
enunciated by chairman Mao in his book "Mao's Teachings on Struggle for
Peace". Long live Chairman Mao".
"Campastimes" interviewed several leaders about the 'deer is~ue'. The
quotable one among them was Rajaji who quipped: "The deer are dying; I am
alive"
In the meantime, negotiations between the Govt. and the Deer Samrakshna
Samiti were going on to achieve an acceptable solution. Leaders appea led to
the Swamiji to end his fast, but the Samiti decided that he should not do so.
Ultimately as it should happen to all agitations, the Government decided
to appoint a Committee under the Chairmanship of yet another Retired Chief
Justice, to go into the question and on the Hlth day of his fast, the Swamiji, with
the approval of the Samiti broke his fast.
As I was still thinking about the merits and demerits of the Government's
policy with regard to such agitations, a gentle tap on my shoulder woke me up.
The Security Officer was standing before me with a smile. Yes, I was in the
office and presumably, had dozed off for a few minutes in that sunny afternoon.
The morning edition of 'THE HINDU' with its bold caption 'Puri Sankaracharya
ends his fast' was just lying on my table. I had brought the paper with me to go
through during the lunch hour and that was what I was doing.
"Had you been to any late-show yesterday?" enquired the Security Officer.

"1 came to ask you about the Director's permission for the shooting of the ...... "
'''Yes'', I interrupted him. "It is here. He has given the permission."
and I handed over to him that particular letter from a film-producer requesting
permission to shoot some sequences of his forthcoming film "Oh! My dear! !" in
the I. I. T. Campus. The film, I was told, features M. G. R. and Saroja Devi,
but the vilHan is not M. R. Radha.

*

*
43

*

