Parliament Etiquette
Maclliavelli

IT was Shaw who said of a constitutional monarchy,

that the cabinet wants to
splash mud on the royal robe and expects this to be reciprocated. In India,
substituting the ruling party for the sceptre and the oppsition for the
arrogant cabinet we can arrive at a realistic picture of democratic ungentlemanly, robust, vulgar and shameful behaviour. Both the ruling party and
opposition are to blame for this disgraceful performance.
The practice of democracy in this populous nation consists in the total
disregard on our part for concrete truth, respect, honour and culture. To slander
every leading public figure has been the constant practice of the opposition. Often
ithas surprisingly some bearing on the affairs of our Republic. At those times
the condemned tries to paint himself new, bringing out very clearly the amount of
decay left. Heated arguments result; motions are put forward. If they, in anyway
would affect the ruling party and-force some destruction upon it, the trouble
starts. The speaker uuwittingJy comes to its rescue with a denial, quoting from
the constitution some slipshod, irrelevent and ambiguous passages.
This starts a chain reaction.
1~ A part cf the opposition calms down, being absolutely ignorant of
what is written in our constitution. (a shameful result of our indiscriminate
adult franchise).
2. Another which is equally ignorant, but immensely angered at the dismal
failure of its futile efforts gives accurate expression to its subhuman thoughts
with flowing, "figurative" and filthy language.
3. The third part, unfortunately a minority, which alone has taken the
trouble to p'ursue parliamentary ethics and obtain a doubtful knowledge of our
constitution rises up to argue on the ruling, all at once.
4. The relieved ruling party which has aeen the breach in the opposition makes no attempt to conceal its joy and decides to celebrate its "tactical
victory", by oral expressions.
The result obviously is absolue pandemonium. A bunch of noisy
oysters would certainly have kept quiet if they had had a parliament,

46

