This wakes up some snoring members, who shout "Shame! Shame!
The Speaker shouts "Order! Order!" JA sensible observer usually cannot
avoid shouting" Bark! Bark!), The speaker names the few who are barking
loudest. The a udibiIity of the hall being poar, they continue ther oral
presentations. They are ordered out and they naturally cannot understand
it. They are forcibly removed. In the meantime the cause of the quarrel bas
been forgotten.
The forbidden members usually belong to the opposition and in sympathy
the whole opposit ion walks out. The ruling party members see no .point in
remaining in the hall and the parliament "finishes" its work for the day. This
is more or less what happens in our democratic parliament, state assemblies and
even in our municipal councils.
Such a behaviour proves conclusively that Democracy is a system of
Government invented by the corrupt few to favour the incompetent many. If
this is the way that Governments by the people, for the people and
of the people govern their people, it can be safely said democracy has
lost its value, prestige, purpose, and its meaning. Democracy is intended for
discussion, debate, argument and proper execution of plans which bring forth
the best for the most. This is more or less an ideal form of Government where
every individual knows what is expected of him. It is definitely not a fitting form
of Government where the majority does not realise its existence. It is not hard
to arrive at the conclusion, that democracy and parliamentary behaviour as
practiced in this ignorant nation are not far from hallucinations and it is merely
foolish and fatal to defend it anymore. In any nation where the brilliant few are
completely submer&ed by the ignorant majority democracy can never be a success.
It is high time, that we as the representatives of future generations, start thinking
in terms of realities, because the damage done by this generation may be a serious
handicap to us in the future and may not be annuled for ever.

*

*

41

*

