Thermal Power From Sea
M. N. Viswaoathao,
Associate Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering
Steam Laboratory.
The use of tidal waves as the source of generating electricity is a well known
phenomenon and there are already some power stations that generate power
by tapping energy from from tidal waves. Another method of energy production,
as yet untried in the commercial sense, is that of exploiting the difference between
the temperatures at the surface and at the bottom of the sea in tropical zones.
This scheme was envisaged over a hundred years ago by Jules Verne, whose
forecasts in so many fields of science have come true in recent years. He made
this proposal in "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under'the Sea". In 1926, M. Georges
Claude put forward a proposal based on the Carnot cycle for a practical scheme
for utilizing this sea temperature difference.
Basically, the scheme is simple. It is a well known fact that water boils
at a lower temperature at reduced pressures. Suppose now that one has a source
of warm water that is led into a chamber which is continually exhausted or
maintained at sub-atmospheric pressure. The water instantly boils. If the vapour
is passed into a chamber containing cold water it will at once condense. If the
vapour in its passages from the evacuated chamber to the condensing chamber
strikes the blades of a turbine, then the turbine will be driven round, thus
generating power. The warm water from the surface of the tropical ocean is led
into an evacuated chamber where it vaporizes. The vapour is sucked down
through the blades of a large tubine wheel into the condensing area, containing
cold water from the bottom of the sea. In doing so it turns the turbine blades
which are of, the reaction type and drives the alternator mounted at the top of the
turbine shaft.
Mr. M. Daric, a French engineer, has put forward a totally different
proposal. In his proposal, he uses an intermediate fuel such as propane or
isobutane as the working fluid. Warm water, from the top of a steel tower,
evaporates the propane and the gas then drives the turbine. The cold water at
the bottom of the tower recondenses the gaseous propane and the cycle is
repeated. Operation of the plant on a fluid other then water eliminates the
problems of deaeration and high-vacuum production. Propane is used as the
working fluid because of its low cost and non-corrosive action.

48

