from the Himalayas and parade it through the streets: It'll show how resourceful
our party can be. The rest stared incredulously. Was he out of his mind?
"Get an actual one? An abominable snowman? How? And where from? .. "
"It's simple. A team will be sent to capture one. This brave act will also
show that we don't lack courageous men unafraid of death. Naturally, Burma,
as leader you will volunteer for this mission, won't you?"
Well, as they say, when the man with the money plays the tune, the havenots dance to it, or something of that nature, so the opinion of the majority was
shelved in favour of that of a minority of one
So . a few weeks later
"Mr. Bahadur? Call from Tibet." squeaked the telephone. The aide who
had picked up the phone reported to Mr. B. "Phone, Seems to be from out of
town."
"Burma reporting" "Burma? I thought he said Tibet" muttered Bahadur.
"Had some initial difficulty about the Trapping Licence for Abominable Snowmen (up to 7601 bs). Seems the last one they issued was in 1799, and they had
lost the appropriate forms or something. But a little grease worked wonders.
They'll have nothing to learn from Indian Bareaucracy over here. Also sot the
expedition, yaks, llams, lamas, (the careful diction of Burma enabled Bahadur to
distinguish the one-lIed one from the two-lled one.) and .•• "
"Why tire lamas?" queried Bahadur.
~'To carry the loads, of course," replied Burma, a trifle peeved at this frivolous interruption.

"Not the llamas, idiot, the lamas!" shouted Bahadur.
"Oh, them, well they're to pray for our success, the locals won't come
along without some official prayers ... ha ... ha ... get the pun' ... Sorry. Anyway
other equipment includes one medium size patented Abominable Snowman Trap,
guaranteed genuine, made in Japan, by Komutso and Co., by appointment Royal
Trap Mak~rs to his Majesty Charles II. By the way bave you any preference as
to sex? ••• No? . OK. Roger."
And a few weeks later .••
"Burma reporting. Thought we had one last week. It was a fierce looking, hairy creature that kept making untintelligible noises aDd very threatening
gestures. Finally turned out to be a false alarm. It was a Red Guard. Wonder
what he was doing there. Perhaps ho's trying to teach Mao-thought to the SnowJllen, Thre~ members of expedition died yesterday. W~ were iJl a viUaee whC!r~

