tbey offered us some strange looking matter to eat.
fish, flesh. Finally turned out to be foul fish flesh.
right."

It looked like fowl,
Killed the three out·

A few weeks later ...
"Burma reporting. Success at last. Have obtained an Abominable Snowman, large, white, male, one number. We've just got back to civilization. The
, trip cost us thirty-five lives, too ... No, all weren't killed. They just decided to stay
back there. You see, it seems that the Abominable Snowwomen have just the ...
Click ... buzz ...... click . and that's why they decided to stay back there. One
strange thing, though. The Snowman almost speaks. It seems that a few months
ago, some American planes:dropping propaganda leaflets over N. Vietnam accidently got off course and dropped them over Snowman territory instead. These
things have been studying the leaflets and have acquired a rudimentary knowledge
of the language. This opens up great possibilities. Do you think that we could
train this one to deliver election harangues? Or just to denounce the Opposition
candidates? Think of the effect! An election symbol that speaks! There are other
advantages he has over normal people. A good forceful denunciation followed by
a blood-curdling scream (he does this beautifully) should work wonders, I think,
don't you?"
So they brought back A. S. Noman, as they had begun-to call him, and
they trained him to speak. They hired the services of the best elocutionist in the
city. This wasn't so easy. When they first went to him and told him what he was
to tutor, he nearly exploded with rage. He was finally pacified by the brilliantly
persuasive tactics of Bahadur.
"Look at it this way," he urged, "You'll be hailed as a real-life Higgins.
who but you could teach an ape to debate?H and he was won over: The appeal
to vanity never fails, as any psychology student could tell you.
The campaign proceeded in earnest style. Noman, whose intelligence level

was found to be just under thE level of the average chimpanzee, (and, asserted the
malicious, well over the level of the average politician.) progressed in leaps and
bounds. He was taken for a tour of the major cities. He denounced all and
sundry. What won him over to the hearts of the people was his simple monosyllabic style of speaking (so different from all others). Many sophisticated
women were won over too. ('So hairy and masculine, my dear!) The star of the
LOST party had never geemed to have shone so brightly before. The blow was
yet to fall.
The last day of filing of nominations .•
frantic phone call from an aide to Bahadur.

S3

