Teenage Idol
by R. Seshadri

WELL, to zoom off, let's forget the trial ball please (I mean the intro to this bit)
and get on with the real ones and believe me there'll be no fast ones and
be sure you face my bowling straight or you'll be back, God knows where, minus
your-you needn't know.
To send down the first ball, 'its my brithday today but which. one you'll
come to know. This piece is not to announce my brithday (I'd regret the day
I was born if it were. I can trust you guys that far.)
Needless to say, but yet I do say, ours is a jet age. I mean now we can
do things fast, or better still, things do happen fast and unannounced these days.
The other day I ran so fast I could see me chasing myself. Isn't this too true
to be good? Ah, to tell you the truth it's a piece of me b'day Cake. Sweet,
wasn't it ?-the cake, of course.

A story I'm reminded of now is that of that guy who took off on his rocket
from Russia with Love (of his wife, silly) radiced back for the tooth brush he
had left behind and had it sent up to him in time for him to ask the Martians
to take him to their Kosygin.
He was flashed across their newspapers as a
stick-in-the-mud-or, mouth (Caught the joke ha! ba!, he still had the brush in
his mouth, and that gave them away.)
I'm off my track perbaps, but that's only for refuelling.

What I was
about to say is that things do happen overnight. (The Director for- Population
Studies says he can certify to that). But that again is not my point. To
give it to you right, just now, last night I was 19, today I'm 20 (years of age, I
mean). It isn't that simple or funny. It is alright that it happened overnight
too, we're sure, but that thing which worries me is that I'm past my teens. You
needn't care more than a hoot and a half for that, but that's that. There's so much
diff between 19 and 20. It is like a 99 cent sale which seems a lot less than a
dollar.
My teenage years were as it should be, short. I don't deny that I had
my full quota of 1 teenage years (One was a no-ball). But I wish tor the 8th
for a simple reason that I've finished with 7. I'm justified too. My cause is
Dobler than that of those crazy Beat quartet who wanted an 8th day to the week
just to love someone.

5S

