Physical Education in The Dock
by A. N. Lamech M. S. (Chicago)
Senior Physical Training Instructor
THere is a popular misconception among many individuals today that physical
education is just, physical fitness' or 'physical training'. This half baked
notion is, sad to say, prevalent among many of the leading educationists and
intelligentia, of today. There is a fatal tendency to divorce it from 'education',
not realising that physical education is only an extension of the class room out of
doors. To put it more precisely, the play fields are only 'class rooms without
waUs'l Terms like 'physical fitness' and 'physical training' have been rejected in
favour of the 'total fitness' of the person, Those unaware of these facts are very
much behind times and have a great deal of catching up to do!
To comprehend this more fully one has to first understand the function
of education. To some, it is an accumulation of knowledge; to others, it is the
acquiring of degrees, diplomas and scholarships. Education goes far beyond
books and degrees; it strikes at the very central being of man-his soul, or in
simple terms-hii character! Physical education aims to do just that through the
body. It aims to instil self~confidencet courage, perseverance, quickness of
decision, courtesy, truthfulness, justice, unselfishness, initiative, alertness, loyalty,
co·operation, team-spirit, obedience to leaders, ability to mix wen, appreciation
of the superiority of others, quality to face defeat or victory with equanimity, fair
play, sportsmanship and control of emotions, normally and under pressure.
Drs. Lesnard Mc Kenzie & Ray Croft define physical education as "that which
sees in measures ensuring bodily health and the right kind and amount of
motor activity, an avenue of approach through which the whole individual
may be influenced for good in mind and character as well as in body. It
employs the word physical to denote the means and not the end" . Physical
activities are the tools in the hands of the physical educationists with which they
leeks to educate the ·whole' man. He aims at providing selected physical
activities that are socially sound and mentally stimulating and satisying to
help in the total growth and development of the individual.
The physical educationist shares with all other teachers a common
concern for the developing individual. The same goals are shared, only each uses
different materials and a wise variety of experiences and methods to attain them.

8

57

