in addition, physical educationists jointly with others are concerned with education for leisure, for health and for democratic citizenship. The staff of the
physical education department of the University of California, Los Angeles have
very aptly said '·Our unique contribution lies in the area of educating for the
understanding and use of the body as the instrument for daily living, for expressing
ourselves, and for communicating with others·'.
Why is physical education given a secondary place in many institutions
even today? Does it not help in the development of organic fitness, new-muscular
skills, interpretive thinking and emotional balance? Is it not based on scientific
principles of biology, psychology and sociology? Does it not possess as its
philosophic basis insight, understanding and experience? Are not many people
blind to these facts? Perhaps, they have never experienced the thrill of kicking a
ball or the sense of achievement in vaulting over a bar or a horse! It is not merely
the kick or vault that matters much, but it is the sensation, joy and feeling
experienced that matter. The more frequenly these experiences are provided
through natural activities like running, jumping, climbing and throwing, the
better are the the chances of 'one's men tal development and physical wellbeIng. Have not many gone off at a tangent. Pursuing materialistic ends in
preference to a fuller, richer, and more abundant life?
True that physIcal educationists have much to blame. There are some
that are incompetent and inefficient.. they are certainly a disgrace to the profession.
But are there not such In other professions too? Many have chosen professions
without a proper' concept and a deep conviction. They have sought after degrees
and diplQmas only for a meal ticket! Surprisingly they do wind up getting many
of the plum jobs. Is it any wonder that the poor Indians in Chicago that
Mr. Kumaramangalam mentioned In his talk to the I1Tians in Madras prefer not
to return to their motherland? I may add, there are many other reasons besides.
Are we justified in branding all the clerks in a particular bank as crooks just
because one clerk had embezzled some cash?
It is often overheard or said that the physical educationists do not have
any work at all. This again is not entirely true-there are some who role their
employer's tfme much to the detriment of their employer and to their oun personal
growth. They have chosen a sedentary life pushing a pen behind a desk to a life
of joyous activity. The average physical educationist, apart from his office
routine in the morning and other odd jobs in the course of the day, works
in the evenings when all the other staff of the institution have left for home.
Often there is really no one to adequately assess his work.

Per haps some have become frustrated in that they are not on a par
with other teaching staff ot the Institute' even though they are inextricably

sa

