involved in this big business of educating people. The heads of institutions in
many cases have failed to realise that it is the physical educationist alone that
come into a vital and personal contact with the students and that he positively
does wield an influence over them for better or worse in no small measure.
Using physical activities as material he is able to contribute towards a full of
meaningful experiences.
Quite often the physical education teacher is hastily misjudged for his lack
of skills in many games and sports. The fault lies in the many institutions
that train teachers in physical education. Even though many of the colleges of
physical education emphasize that every physical education 'teacher should be
highly proficient in any two major games and at least one event!n track and
field sports they turn out many who possess very poor skills. Though this is
only one aspect of the total work he is engaged in, it is an important aspect ant it
cannot be denied that skills in games and sports does help a physical education
teacher immensely to be a more effective workman. He is primarily obsessed
with the idea that sports and games should be for all not slightIng the general
program for the highly specialised training for the skilled few. Rosalind Cassidy
in 'What is physical Education' has this to say "The primary job of the physical
education teacher, as differentiated from that of other teachers, is educating for an
understanding of the body as a symbol of the self, for an understanding of the
laws of its expression and use, and for the value of a responsive, well directed,
mature responsible instrument for living with oneself and with othen".
Another charge brought against the physical educationists is that of
acceptance of commissions from the sports companies on the purchase of sports
materials. Many have tried to stifle that still small voice within by countering
that other teachers have opportunities for private tuition, paper-setting and paper
corrections. However, it must be pointed out here that the association of
physical education teachers have again condemned it as illegal gratification at its
most recent meeting. This is a rna tter best left to the conscience of the
individuals concerned as it does effect the quality of the work they are engaged in.
If they are engaged in educating others and helping others to a better way of life,
it goes without saying that their hands should be clean.
These misconceptions have resulted in no proper recognition being given to
physical education, Until and unless recognition and status is given, the
physical education teacher continues to remain, in the words of a leading physical
educationist of Madras, a glorified peon. It is only when proper recognition is
given that the training colleges in physical education will begin to attract the ri~ht
type of people to do the right kind of job.

