TIle First Meeting
by V. Sundaresan
CHANDAR glanced with impatient disapprove} at the office clock for perhaps the
fifteenth time in as many minutes. For him, the only thought foremost in his

mind was to rush home as soon as his office hours were over, find her waiting for
him at the door step with an impatient-yet eager-manner, gather her in his aims
and smother her with ..•
To get thoughts of her out of his mind he decided to think of somethin g
else but invariably his memory came back and dwelt upon their first meeting. Ah!
The first meeting. It was not like the ones in stories or pictures. He could
still picture her as when be had first met her, younger of course, but still as pretty
as ever.
It was in a local hospital that they had met. He had heard pitiable heart
breaking cries and with one or two others, mostly doctors had gone in to jn vesti.
gate. He would never forget that moment. Time stood still for God knows how
long. He had found her weeping besides a cot 'containing' her mother-rather her
body-. He had found her inconsolable for~she was in a daze as to what had
happened and was not sure of her own ground. She did not have anyone to look
after her and when Chandar made a move to take her home with him she did not
object, rather, could not object. After that it was a period of eternal laughter and
happiness in their house. She did not cry in between but in the presence and
company of his mother-a loving women-she grew stronger and stronger. In these
eight yean ..•

In these eight years ..... Chandar awoke from his reverie with a start, glanced hurriedly at the clock, locked his room and treaded his way back. He had promised to take her to the exhibition that day and she did get petutant when he forgot these m.inor things. As was his custom, he brought some flowers- Jasmines
which she liked best, and her favourite sweets-and with a thumping heart,
set out.
He laughed a little, ashamed of himself for getting so excited about meet..
ing some one whom he had been seeing every day for the past eight years. His
love for her remained as strong as ever. He had played a lot of silly little games
with her and he still blushed at the thought of those ...

