Teaching and Research at
" Tecboische Hochschulen "
in the Federal Republic of Germany
Prof. Count Stenbock-Fermor
(University Dj Aachen)

A few weeki ago an Indian student from Senates

who is studying in Aachen
asked me to explain to him the principle of academic freedom which charac-

terizes the universities in our country. He himself had become aware of so many
varied problems in this connection that he could not quite understand the meaning of it all and be wanted to know il1 particular about its practical implications.
I welc()med the question and found it particularly opportune, for I believe
it refers to the central problem which must be solved if German universities are
to be understo&d, and I must take it as my starting point jf I wish t'? give you an
impressien of the essential eh~racter of our universities and our university
education.

A few remarks about the historical development :.
Yhe oldest oxisting German univ~rsitios were founded in the 14th century~
(Heidelberg, Rostock, Cologne, Effurt, Leipzig).. They were founded, as it were,
on the basis of the R.evivalof Learning (Early Renaissance), that intellectual
and spiritual movement which influenced the whole of Europe. A second group
of universities owe theIr origin to the great religious disputes between catholicism
and protestantism in the 16th c~ntury (e. g. Marburg, Wuerzburg, Giessen, Kiel).
A further important phase in the development of the German universities came in
the 19th century.

It was loverned by the ideas. concepts and principles of Hclassical
idealism". Prussia was in those days the lar~est state in Germany. Wj]belm von
Humboldt who was a Minister in Prussia carried out a reform of the German
universities in the coUrse of which Berlin, Bonn and Breslau universities were
founded and quickly grew to famo. According to von Humboldt's ideas the
essential features Gf the German universites were to be as follows;
The totality of academic education is founded on philosophy, and
furthermore on a constant relationship between research and teaching; out of

63

