this cou1d develop a dose intellectual association between the teacher &, the
taught, coupled with education for independent thought and action, all in the
belief that a person thus educated would best be able to master the social and
professional problems of the state and the society. Academic freedom for both
teaching and study, which is so characteristIc for our universities, is based on this
concept.
However, in the course of the 19th century the concept of academic studies
which so far had been directed entirely towards the arts, began to undergo a
change. Up to that time the exact natural sciences had played a subordinate part
in the universities. At the end of the 19th century there were faculties of natural
sciences at only three German universities but at that time they began to assert
themselves as academic disciplines.
The uni versities were critically opposed to the natural sciences but even
more so, to the engineering sciences which were gradually developing. While the
natural scie~ces studied the legitimacy of natural law and expresied it in mathe..
matical terms, the engineering sciences were in seC\rch of methods of predicting
(prognosticating) the reactions of man-made apparatus, machines, installations
and systems which were not provided by nature and which had to fulfil tasks of
given characteristics. Only gradually was it recognized that one was concerned
in this field not only with systematic experimentation aimed at practical application but that a ~ew academic discipline had been established.
o

The universities did not open their doors to the new disciplines and therefore
new "Technische Hochschulen" arose, which were soon- granted a status equivalent
to that of the universities (e.g. in Berlin, Karlsruhe, Munich, Stuttgart, Darmstadt
and Aachen). Germany, like France and other countries on the continent of
Europe, thus pursued a course different from that followed by Britain, where
technical faculties were established in the existing universities. While Britain has
recently taken steps to establish her own "Technische Hochschulen" one became
concerned recently in our country with an approach towards a unity incorporating
all academj,c studies. The "Technische Hochschule" Aachen has been the first to
take a decisive step in this direction. In addition to the five existing faculties
of natural sciences and engineering sciences a faculty of philosophy was added
in 1965 and a faculty of medicine in 1966. Our "Hochschule now has the
following seven faculties:
1. Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences
2. Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture
3. Faculty of Mechanical Engineering
4. Faculty of Mining and Metallurgy

64

