5.

Faculty of Electrical Engineering

6.

Faculty of Philosophy including Philosophy History Geography
Psychology Languages Sociolgy Economics Industrial Management
and Political sciences.
Faculty of Medicine

7.

The most important principles of the German University are as follows:I The connection between Teaching and Research
That demands from the professors that they do not restrict themselves to
importing valid and recognized knowledge but that they constantly put it to the
est and add to it by their research and by their striving (forward) from the known
o the unknown. Lectures and exercises are to be part of the living process of
the search for truth and they should enable students to participate in the research
carried out by their professor.
This means that the student is required, particularly during the later stages
of his studies, to acquire his education by participating, at least as an observer, in
processes which lead to academic truths. Teacher and pupil are united in the
common task of the search for truth (knowledge) whereby the one carries on his
research, the other develops into a personality who, by reason of having acquired
a systematized knowledge and ability, is in a position to master problems, .for
which there are no ready-made solutions.
That these principles and requirements are not always completely lived up
to even in Germany is due in part to the exceptional increase in recent decades of
the total number of students but also of course, quite naturally, due to human
frailty from which the students and even the professors are not entirely immune.

n

The Freedom of Teaching and Research

Article 5 paragraph 3 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Germany says: "Art and Science, Teaching and Research are free. The free.
dom of teaching does not exonerate from allegiance to the Constitution. All
the Constitutions of the separate federal states include corresponding passages.
The principle of academic freedom means that university teachers are autono.
mous as far as decisions regarding the content of their teaching and research are
concerned, that parliaments and governments are forbidden to interfere in the
teaching and research of men of letters by means of laws, orders or instructions
relating to method, subject matter or aims. On the other hand, academic free ..
dom is limited in so far as it is bound by general legal norms.
You will probably be interested to hear how these principles are applied in
practice, for there are at least two aspects in which academic freedom is threat..
ened by the state.

6S

p

