the University is financed entirely by the state and it is the state also
which has to insist on particular schemes of academic training for particular professions and thus, through the medium of the examination regulations, exercises
an influence on the choice of academic subjects.
The instrument which really enables the universities to arrange their academic life freely is their system of self..government which is to a large extent
independent of state influence and enjoys state recognition and respect. State
influence in the field of university self.government is limited to legal control, i. e.
its conUol affects only the legality and not the expediency of measures taken by
the academic self-government.
The tasks of the academic self-government are in the main:
Matters concerning research,
all questions connected with academic teaching,
also the organization of the teaching activity and the compilation of regulations relating to study,
the compilation of examination regulations, which however also require
governmental approval,
the acceptance and the dismissal of students,
the maintenance of order as it affects the academic life of the University
including disciplinary powers over the students,
the granting of academic degrees and awards and above all,
~

particular point of great significance;

the making of proposals for the extensi on of the teaching staff.
This latter function appears to me to be so important that I should like to
deal with it in more detail. When an appointment to an existing chair has to be
made because the professor has died or retired or when a new chair has to be
created, the faculty concerned forms a selection committee which nominates three
persons after having carefully examined candidates' academic achievements and
baving heaJ;d sample lectures from each applicant. Thus nobody can apply for a
professorship. When agreement is reached between the faculty concerned and
the senate, the rector submits the three names to the Ministry of Education which
is empowered to alter the order of names on the list. That happens rarely and
only after previous consultation with the university. During the last 20 years at
our" Hochschule "the Minister of Education has only once appointed number
two on the list without our being consulted, and that caused considerable
indignation.

