The powers of the state are limited in the main to the following :-

It meets the university's current and non-recurring expenditure; the regula
tion of the legal position of professors, cJvil servents and junior officials employed
by the university and thus in the service of the federal state concerned; the appoint.
ment of university teachers nominated by the university; the compilation of examination regulations for state ~xaminations and the approval of academic examination
regulations drawn up by the university; the approval of the university constitution.
III. The Freedoms of teaching and research enjoyed by the professors correspond to the freedoms which the students enjoy regarding their studies.
The German student can attend the university of his choice; he is free to
move from one university to another and in principle he is also free to decide what
and how he will study; with what intensity he will conduct his studies and to a
certain extent how long they shall last. Examination regulations lay down only the
minimum period of time required for the study of each subject: the maximum
time which may be devoted to studies has so far not generally been stated. In our
opinion the student should learn during his studies to be responsible for his own
decisions. He should produce the energy and the determination to work and to
study reasonably well without being subject to regular etxernal compulsion. It is,
of course, possible for him to take advice regarding the most suitable way of
arranging his work.
This freedom of study has to a considerable extent been retained as far as
the arts are concerned but for the engineering sciences, the natural sciences and
also for medicine there are courses of studies which prescribe a certain sequence
to be followed and which for example make participation in certain exercises dependent on the successful conclusion of other exercises. In these field of study, therefore, the work is arranged systematically and the scope for free decisions on tae
part of the student is limited. In no subject, however, is there such a thing as
compulsory attendance,
The rapid development of many academic subject in the last two decades
and the extraordinary inceease in the total number of students have led in many
subjects to a considerable increase in the duration of studies.
In recent years plans have been discussed in Germany for reducing the nor.
mal period of study to about four yean by means of a system of fixed courses of
studies and intermediate examinations. That will, however, only be possible by
reducing also the freedom available so far to the student, and although that could
scarcely be avoided it will most certainly be regretted.
The number of students in the Fedral Republic of Germany increased between 1950 alld 1965 from 110,000 to 250,000 i.e. to 225%. The number offorei~n

67

