students in our country increased during the same period from 2,000 to 23,000
i.e. to 1120<}o •
In the Federal Republic of Germany to-day there are 20 universities,
9 "Technische Hochschulen", and 3 special institutes with university status. In
addition there are 17 theological colleges and 32 Teacher Training Colleges
in which 1eachers for the "elementary schools" are trained. Anybody wishing
to study at anyone of these educational institutions must have successfully
completed a secondary school course and must have been granted his Secondary
School Leaving Certeficate. It is on the other hand possible to attend an "Technical
College" a "College of Art" or a "College of music" when one has simply
attended the "Elementary School
Allow me finally to give you some details about the" fechnische Hochschule", Aachen, in order to supplement what I said at the begining and in order
to give you some idea of the "Institute" which we represent:
The ".Technische Hochschule", Aachen cannot compare, in age and tredition, with the oldest and most venerable German universities some of which were
founded more than 500 years ago. The "Hochschule" in Aachen was founded in
1870 and will thus in three years time celebrate its centenary.
It quickly developed into a reputable "Institute" remaining however at
first quite small. In 1939 when the Sccond World war started, Aachen had 1000
students. Aachen was the first German town to be taken by American troops and
70%) of the buildings of our" Hochschule" had been destroyed by air attack and
street fighting which had lasted for days.

After the War we were faced with a threefold task:
Reconstruction of the parts of the university destroyed, re-establishment
of our position in relation to international academic and scientific progress and
the handling of enormous increase in the number of students. As early as 1960 the
total number of students reached 10,000, with 2,000 foreign students, and it has
since remained about constant. Aachen is thus the biggest "Technische Hoshschule" in Germany. The number of professors has increased from 44 to 145 and
the total number of university teachers -from proressor to assistant-has
grown to over 900.
At the head of our "Hochschule" we have the Rector and the Senate. The
Rector is elected for one year at a meeting of all professors. He can be re-elected
so that his period of office is increased to two years and that is customary in
Aachen. The Senate is the supreme athority in the "Hochschule". It consists of
the Deans who are the heads of the faculties together with one representative of
each faculty.

