tn German universities, generally speaking, there is no Governing Body ot
any kind which stands outside and over the university for purposes of direction
or control. Neither do we have the honorary office of Chancellor as it is under..
stood in your country and in Brit~in. The Kanzler in our universities is the
senior administrative official who assists and supports the Rector and the Senate in
the administration, and in the maintenance of continuity, in matters of finance,
economics and personnel. This is important bearing in mind the fact that a new
Rector is elected every two years and the composition of the Senate changes
annually. The Kanzler"s is an extremely interesting function in the highly
charged area between academic self government on the one hand and state
administration on the other. I have had the honour to hold this position at our
"Hochschule" for 12 years and the two years during which Professor Schmeisser
was Rector-years which I recall with thanks and pleasure- were particularly
happy and enjoyable in spite of all the external difficulties.
I have already enumerated for you the seven faculties of our ,"Hochschule".
They include many fields of study where orientation and emphasis vary according
to the importance of the professor concerned, according to the stage of development reached in particular branches of science and also according to industrial
reqUirements, e. g. electrical engineering has developed quite extraordinarily in
recent years while mining as a profession and as a field of study has fallen back
as a result of certain structural changes in the German economy:
We have close and manysided relations with the various branGhes of industry from which many professors receive research projects. We believe that especially
in connection with the engineering sciences a permanent and lively relationship
with industrial practice and a certain adjustment to meet industrial needs is
indispensable.
Our "Hochschuleu also maintains academic contact with universities
abroad as for example in Britan, France, Belgium, Holland t U. S. A., Chile and
of course in India with the I IT. Madras. I am not simply polite when I tell
you that our contact with your attractive "Institute" is of very special interest for
us- if that were not so we wouldn't be here to-day.
You will perhaps be interested to hear that of all the German universities,
Aachen has the largest numper of foreign students. There are some 2,000
representing 76 countries and we have 115 Indian students. We are well aware how
difficult it is for someone to study with us when he is separated from his national
and family relationships, when he finds himselfin a foreign country with a foreign
language, strange customs, a climate to which he is not accustomed and different
1Dethods of instruction. Therefore we are at great pains to help foreign students

