The Brink
NINE thousand revolutions per minute. A hundred pounds of steel, streaming
with oil, spun a hundred and fifty times a second eight inches behind
his spine.

The man in the helmet gritted his teeth against the bone ..jawing vibration
and stared at the bend closing in 200 feet every second. He watched for the
landmark-a tree, and as soon as it crossed his field of vision at 45 0 , he stepped
on the clutch pedal, opened the throttle with the heel of his asbestos-covered boot,
and slammed the shift lever across the gate into neutral, almost immediately down
into third, while at the same time the toe of his accelerating foot had rotated
and delicately jammed on the brakci. The nose of the car was pointed straight at
the inside kerb and in a wake of burning rubber, the car went into a perfect four
wheel drift around the bend and accelerated out of sight.
Silence returned to the bend. The rubber film lay on the road,~ black and
shiny, slowly hardening. The asphalt was shimmering in the heat haze. The
track official checked to see if there was an oil slick on the road and went back to
his sandwich.
Five minutes later, the man in the helmet screamed into tho pits and got
out of the low-slung Lotus-Ford. As the cooling metal ticked, he made a few
notes in a little book and walked off to find his chief mechanic.
':Ahtoine", he said "it's a bit undergeared. Might try lowering the rearaxle ratio about O. ]. The 7 -mile and 5 mile straights are both a bit uphill,
though. Might need O. 2. I dont like that damn line at 9,500".
"How"re the brakes 1" "1 changed the right disk, the one that faded too
much". "I think it's the left one that's biting too much. Each time I hit the
brake, the car swerves to the left. It's murder turning right. Just soften them
linings, huh 1"
With that, Herre lit up a smoke, changed out of his asbeotos overalls
climbed into a pair of shorts and went off to study his notes. He had painstakingly written down everything he knew about the 16 starters. He knew
their previous performances by heart, as well as the events, cars used and construction details.
He noted down his observations that morning. He reckoned the three
American Eagles were going to be tough competition. They had performed

73
10

