we11 in Indy despite the fact that they were symmertical. All other cars racing
at the 'Brickyard' had offset chassis as the circuit had only left turns in it.
He noted with glee that the Lotus- Maserati had been a big bust that
morning. The chassis-builders had boasted that its radical1y new suspension
geometry-7 degrees of negative camber front and back, and semi-elliptic leaves
that doubled as torsion bars, enabled it to corner better than anything else on
four wheels. "Big deal", he thought "it couldn't go round a corner even if it was
straight" .
Another intesesting car was a Bordini. It was blown with a 17 psi exhaust
powerd turbocharger, and so had a smaller displacement, to conform with the
rules. Though it seemed to have tremendous acceleration, it appeared to
consume fuel a trifle voraciously and the superchargers back pressure had filled a
couple of cylinders that morning to the owner's great disgust.
Herre didn't have much of a memory. "Must be getting old", he thought
"can't even remember the 176 bends and corners at Nirhirging". With his face
screwed up in. concentration, he slowly drew a scale map of the track and its bends
and corn ers, with braking and gear-shift points marked.
Eventually, he went out and found the car nearly ready for another time
trial. The officials told him that the lap record had been bettered twice in
practice. This irked him but he could do nothing about it. The new rain tires
had to be worn down a bit and they were dangerous at high speeds on a dry
circuit.
But he was in luck. Mario Castel1otti, who had come close to winning
the "Drivers championship last year was out practising in a big, red, viciouslooking racer that Enzo Ferrari himself had presented to him. Castellotti
was one of the acknowledged experts on braking refinements.
Larnerde went howling down the straight, intent on fonowing the maestro
and ledrning something. It was a shattering experience. Castelloltti seemed
to start braking a full half second after he did and seemed to boost out of
his drift much sooner. In thos~ few laps, Larllerde learnt enough to clip his lap
time by O. 6 second and use half a dozen less gear changes.
In 14 hours, 16 four wheeled missles, equivalent to 9000 horses would
start off on a 1000 mile journery.
All night long, the pit crew, practised their operations. Endlessly, they
yanked the four big firestone baloon tires and push-fitted them back on again.
They practised their refueling drill though they were handicapped by the regula ..
tions of that particular circiut which prohibited pressure hoses and limited the
rank capacity at the pits to 250 gallons, which wasn't a hen of a gravity head.

74

