Antoine had neatly copied out a table of front and back tyre pressures to
be used to correct various degrees of under and over speed.
A distant clock struck midnight. The men were busy stripping the car as
well as the engine and reassembling it with ridiculously motherly care.
The engine, an un blown 2 litre V-12, had been completely designed by a
computer at Ford Motor Co. This didn't mean it was invincible of course.
The combustion chambers were of a novel design and it was amazing how the
engineers had fitted 4 valves and dual ignition to the smalt-bore cylinder heads.
No doubt encouraged by the computer, Ford had thrown away the distributor
and installed a transitorized ignition system. There were 7 huge main bearings,
built of special alloys to take the enormous piston-inertia and gas-pressure
stresses produced at 1500 revs. Cost had definitely not been a criterion as far as
this mill was concerned. There were four overhead cam shafts and the ZF gearbox,
made by Zahn Fabrik G. m. b. h. was one of the best of its kind made in the
world.
Thinking their thoughts, the men worked. The car was jacked up aftet
the last screw was tightened and couple of men welded air scoops on the front
suspension wishbones to cool the brake cylinders. That was that. They turned
in for four hours sleep. Meanwhile, Herre slept like a sack of coal· It was
fortunate that he didn't dream. He would have been thoroughly frightened.
The grandstands were filling fast. Thousands of people were talking,
all at once. A bunch of sharpies were making book, illegally, near the car park.
Vendors, bawling out their spHI, made the rounds. Official brochures, with
ancient pictures and out· of-date information, and mostly filled with ads from
automotive manufacturers, were nevertheless selling briskly. The Press Box was
filling fast and sound trucks had moved in, disgorging TV cameramen, who
promptly drove out to strategic corners. Meanwhile, the big horDs blared out
the results of the cycle race that had been held a half an hour ago. Some of the
racers were already there, warming up and having their tuning rechecked by
sweating, lead eyed mechaics.
The scrutineers had finished checking the cars to make sure they did not
violate track regulations as well as FIA classifications for the current year.
At long last, a pompous looking official rode past the grandstand in an
open car and declared the G. P. season open. The starters were announced,
along with their pOSitions on the starting grid, determined according to their
practice lap times.
According to regulations, the cars had to drive up to their grid positions
and wouldn't be pushed. Also they couldn't be push-started but had to dare
their own self-starter. The officials finished sealing the oil tanks as all cars were

