allowed only one tank in this race. As the engines coughed into life, successively,
the reverberating roar washed back and forth through the grandstands.
Herre was in the centre of the second row, not having been able to improve
his lap time in practice. Castellotti had the coveted pole position and the BordiniBra bham next to him.
The track was dead quiet. T-IS seconds and the cars exploded into life.
Engine revs. 4,500. This was it. The flag went down. Sixteen c1utches engaged
simultaneously and the whole grid of cars accelerated rapidly down the straight,
passing 60 mph in five seconds. At precisely the same instant, 16 drivers changed
down and hurtled round the first bend. The hubbub of conversation started up
again.
The wind howling past his helmeted head, Lamerde was irresistibly rammed
into his seat by the enormous acceleration kicking the car forward. Tbere were
four cars ahead of him. There were another forty laps to go on the 21 mile
circuit.
With ntense concentration, he inched the tachometer needle higher and
higher, approaching 9,300.
The Bordini-Brabham was sliding up alongside. It was the only car among
the starters using a hydraulic transmission and the fluid flywheel box suddenly
sprung a leak, blasting hot fluid all over the track. The Car's engine, free
wheeling, must have instantly gone way over the revolution limit, for with a
deafening burst, it flew apart and the Brabham careered across the track, hit an
oil drum with a clang, and ended up in a mass of twisted metal, burning
fiercely.
In a matter of seconds, the other cars had whipped past the scene of the
tragedy and the track officials put up flags warning of the oil slick on the road.
Wailing ceasessly, with red lights flashing, two fire trucks and an ambulance
rumbled up to the wreck and plastered it with foam. The driver was burnt to a
cinder. The ambulance carried away a spectator who had been hit by sharpnel
from the exploding engine.
Ten minutes and 6 seconds later, the lead-car came howling down the
straight, screeched around the sharp, slow corner in front of the TV cameras and
roared out at full boost.
Herre, who had been push-fitted into the small cockpit, wiped his fogging
goggles with the chamois leather patch sewn on his sleeves. The vibration was
fantastic.
The sound level was very close to tq.e threshold of pain. The 600 horsepower engine was emitting on a banshee shriek from the spaghetti~like scramble of
12 open exhausts behind him.

76

