Every nerve ending was raw and tender. Bis band was blistered froli1
constant gear changing. His calves were cramped from the continuous strain of
braking and accelerating, but the pain was hardly noticeable.
The exposed area of his skin was, immediately sand-blasted by the almost
solid wind and the heat was intense.
"Why the hell am I here 1" he thought. Some people would explain it as
life reduced to its barest essentials, the struggle for existence compressed
into a few hours; all window dressings removed. The strong would win. The weak
would die. It was adventure (or many; a livelihood for others. For all it was
excitement of a kind that only mountaineers, animal tamers and combat troops
know.
Herre could feel the individual irregularities of the road s~rface, the
changing camber, the variations in adhesivity and had to continuously compensate
for these. The car hurtled round the circuit laying rubber in its own darkening
tracks, grimly fighting for position.
His crew signalled to him for a refuelling stop after three more laps.
Half an hour later, he was in the pits. The tank was filled three quarter
as he reckoned that the lighter car would compensate for less fuel and the faster
speed would enable him to indulge in some slipstreaming.
Roaring out on the track again, he managed to get immediately. behind
the fa5ter fuel injected Ferrari. The reduced air drag and suction effect added
fully 20 mph to his speed. He coasted 24 inches behind the Ferrari, as if locked,
in place at 180 mph and the cars bunched like a fist burned round the corners,
fighting for scant hundredths of a second. Antoine noted down the times into
the lap sheet tacked on the hardboard with the three stopwatches on it. The three
stopwatches were simultaneously operated by a bar so that When one was stopped,
the second was started and the third reset. This enabled consecutive lap times
to be continuously recorded.
Antoine was keyed up to breaking point. His boyhood friend- and lifelong
pal Herre was still tailing Castelotti, the leader for the past dozen laps. They
had another 10 laps to go, about 210 miles. Both cars were being steered on the
brink of disaster. You were a hero just a hair's breadth this side of the brink,
and a smoking corpse on the other. At the transition, the road turned from rough
asphalt to glasss.. mooth ice.
At that very instant, Herre accelerated just a little too hard and the wheels
pin pushed him over the brink.
The danger flags were raised. All cars had to slow down. Passing was
forbidden. Sirens wailing, the meatwagon thundered down the side of the track,
TV camera operators zoomed their lenses in, asbesetos·clad firemen scrambled
round the fiaming mass. Antoine and his crew, grimly ran up to the inferno and a
track official scratched out no 18 from the starting list.

*

*
l7

*

