most comfortable position for eating. It's a pretty long table. It bas around it
half a score of chairs; these chair s are made of plastic with spring fitted seats.
That's about the room.
Of the owner we have little to say. He is a very rich man sans Arbeit.
His name is Hellhe Sailsea. He utilises his time most usefully in dwelling upon
books of crime. Any such book will decorate his library the very day it's
published. The party is arranged by him. Now the hall sees an ensemblage of
several people. They are all connected with crime. They are no criminals. But
they are world's foremost detectives and criminal lawyers of fiction. Whom do we
see here'1 We see Perry Mason, Hercule Poirot, Sherlock Holmes, Shankarlal, and
the Assistant Commissioner of Police of the City of Addis Ababa. All these
people are special guests invited for a holiday party. You know how ~ difficult it
is to have a gathering of such persons for whom special permission has to be got
from the Heads of State.
We dont see the owner among the ensemblage. I guess we have to wait
with the others. Now the Secretary of the Palace Mr. Alphakhan leads the visitors
and requests them to wait a few seconds till the host arrives.}
Mr. Alphakhan: (with a smile) Welcome to this place. You have conferred a
great honour on us by accepting our invitation. Let us introduce ourselves
before the host arrives. (Doing an Ethiopian salute) I am Alphakhan,
Secretary de palace, of Mr. Hellhe Sailsea.

I am Perry Mason, the lawyer, from Los Angeles.

Perry Mason:

Sherlock Holmes:
Hercule Poirot:
Shankarlal:

I am Sherlock Holmes, from the United Kingdom.
Me Poiroto (Italian accent), from Italiano.

I am Shankarlal (removing his gogs) from India

Asst CDmmissioner: I am Abyssinsa, the Asst. Comm of the city of Addis
Ababa.

(Mr. Alphakhan takes them around the Palace. After a few minutes
they come back and seat themselves before the table and await the
host. The butler enters. He is wearing a suit which reminds us of the good
old Arabian Nights. A long silk apron embedded with multifarious things
that glitter, we see well polished buttons of the shirt and tight fitting pants
that look more like a pair of jeans. He is wearing a pair of blue suede
shoes and a funny looking cap. A golden plate with platinum lining rests
in his hands. But his face does not match the things that don him. It is
pointed on the plate. We see no drinks, but only a large bundle looks
more like a parcel that arrived by the post.)
79

