Butler: (Bows his head and offers the parcel to Alphakhan) Here Sir, a parcel
for you. There is an inscription 'URGENT' on this. So I thought I would
bring it to you immedtiately.
Alphakhan: (Rips the wrapper open. Sees a blood-stained coat and a knife.
We see twitches on his face, He looks faint). Ha! (More of a scream
than an exclamation). It's our boss's. (Addresses the butler) Who gave
you this?
Butler: Sir, I found it on the teapoy in the verandah, when I went there to collect
my cap (touches his cap.)
(He is pale as an Antartican penguin. He lifts the knife by the
handle and looks at the dicks) What do we do now '1

Alphakhan:

Sherlock Holmer:

P. M.:
H. P.:

I guess it is murder then.

Of Course.
But where's the body?

S. L. : We. got to find that.

Let me have these sent to tbe police lab. May be someone's
fooling 'tis. It may not even be human blood.

Abyssinsa :

A. K.: 1 think I can be of some help in this. Only yesterday Mr. Hellhe Sailsea

donated blood for the country's sake. Didn't you see it in today's news
papers? I guess that's the headlines in the "Ethiopian Chroniele". May
be if you can get hold of the authorities you can actually check on it.
Aby: . Thank you Mr. Alphakhan for your help. Shall we disperse?
A. K.: We shall do that after we finish our party with the host in absentia.
(Looks the dicks). I think you'll help me solve the mystery. (Takes the
glass to his lips). Let us drink to the revelation of the truth.
S. H., P. M., S. L., H. P., A. C.: Amen! (They say it as though synchronised.
It is supposed to be Ethiopian Etiquette).
Scene II

(Thts is the garden. You call it a wood rather then a garden. We see
shrubs all round. But mind you, they are all well maintained shrubs. The host
meant it to be an artificial jungle. The early birds twitter and the owl hoots
before going to bed. We hear a distant rumble. The rippling of the waters in
the nearby stream needs some hundred Kingsleys to describe it. We see a tall
figure coming from the eastern end. From the west one short man enters. Both
tbese are wearing walking jackets. It is their morning stroll. Near the tall oak
tree they meet and exchange greetings)
(Tall Person) S. H.: Good morning Poirot, the great grey cells!
I

