P. M.: Let the case go to sleep for sometime. Let·s speak about something
general, say, the weather. How well do you know this place?
S. L.: Not a bit better than you do. I have been thinking of asking you
something. But I have forgotten.
P. M.: What may be that?
(Buttler brings in tea. Shankarlal drinks tea.

Suddenly he brightens).

S. L.: The tea always helps you know. Now I know what I forgot. Why didn't
you bring Della here.
P. M. : That eh I The playwright said that no girls are willing to act. So
thought better. (He shrugs his shoulders and says) No girls-No Della.

S. L.: (He looks at his watch and says) Time up for lunch.
Scene IV
(Now we are in the study. There is diffused light throughout the room.
Nobody knows where it comes from. It has been designed taking care to allow
for the optical stresses and strains. The whole lot of people whom we met in the
first scene, exepting Mr. Abyssinsa, are seen here, gossipping. Now the butler
comes in and announces Mr. Abyssinsa~s arrival. He is full of rage. He has
got a sheet of paper in his hands. He comes straight towards !vIr. Alphakhan.)

Abys:

Mr. Alphakhan, I have come to arrest you, as all evidences show that
you are the murderer. Here is the warrant. You will be brought to
court in a' day or two before the jury.

Alph:

What Mr. Abyssinsa? Are you joking?

Abys : It's no joke to commit a murder and laugh at it. I am sorry that the
evidences are against you. Duty first, friendship next. (goes to arrest him.)
A/ph:
P. M.:

(Looking grim and at Perry) Hullo Perry will you defend me?

I dont know the evidences against you. Yet I think I'll defend you as
you are my HOST ENACTE.

Alph:

Dont utter a word to the police.

So kind of you to let me have you as my counsel.

(They go away).

Scene V
(The Court. It looks more of a Durbar of the Moghul emperors. The
Judge is seated on a high chair, decked with velvet cushions. There is a buge
canopy in red above. The Judge's seat itself is situated on a high platform. The
jury are seated on the run, on eitherside. They are all dressed in some ceremonial uniform which is an Abyssinian custom during every murder trial. The
prosecuter and the defense counsel Perry Mason are provided with seats in the
-front. The defendent is brought to court and made to stand throughout the
trial. Witnesses are seated in a particular corner. There is a large table covered

82

