Mathematics · through the ages
by C. Sivaram
Mathematics is a subject which has been developed by man ever since the dawu
of civilization. The beginning of mathematics is therefore unknown. It
probably began in the very remote past when man started counting his fingers.
Mathematics has progressed steadily from the time man began t050unt till the
present day when Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism have given us the
wonders of the radio and television and Einstein's· E=MC 2 has released the
tremendous powers of the atom and hydrogen bombs.
Like any other well-developed subject it has been the work of several men
through the ages. We have enough evidence to conclude that the ancient
Egyptian must have been well-versed in geometry. The remarkable construction
of the giant Egyptian Pyramids which stand firm to this day even after a lapse
of four miJlenia clearly indicate that their builders (the Egyptians) were well
acquainted with the properties of squares, triangles and geometrical solids like
pyramids etc. The Egyptians also measured land on the bank's of the NIle and
in this they performed several mathema tical calculations. The Sumerians (who
established their civilization in Babylon about the same time as the Egyptians)
were also well acquainted with mathematics. They probably used the first
calendar based on the movements of the sun, moon and the planets. This shows
that they knew astronomy. They could also count upto 60 using the abacus.
Next we come to the Greeks.' One of the earliest of greek mathematicians
was Pythagoras. He is well-known to every student because of the famous
theorem which bears his name. Pythagoras was also probably the first to realise
that the earth was round. He also taught that it was rotating on its own axis.
He however taught that the earth was the centre of the universe and all planets
and stars including the sun moved round it. He is also known for his work
on sound. He deduced the relationship between the length of the string in a
musical instrument and the pitch of the sound produced. About 20() years later
Euclid laid the foundation of modern geometry. He published his famous
book on geometry_ It is remarkable that almost all the geometry taught in our
schools today is the work of Euclid.
With the sole exeption of the Bible, Euclid's book on geometry is said
to have had the largest circulation in history. The period during which Euclid

89
12

