iived and worked. was the 'Golden Age' of greek mathematics. Euclidts book
has inspired several mathematicians through the ages. During this period lived
Aristotle, Aristarchus, Eratosthenes, Archimedes, Apollonius, Heron and others
famous for their original contributions. Aristotle was not strictly a mathematician
although he made valuable contributions to various branches of science and
philosophy. He is known as the father of modern science. Aristarchus propounded and taught the Heliocentric theory (which considered the sun as the
centre with all planets revolving round it including the earth ), several centuries
before Copernicus rediscovered it in the fifteenth century. Eratsonenes living
in this period knew enough trigonometry to calculate the circumference of
the earth by observing the sun from 2 places SOO miles apart Aristotle however
stoutly opposed Aristarchus and vigourously propounded that the earth was the
centre of the universe. The influence of Aristotle was so great that his view
prevailed centuries after his death and thus completly eclipsed the simple truth
which Aristarchus had stated.
Apollonius is well known on account of the theorem and circle which bear
his name. Archimedes is of course known to every school-boy for his discovery
of the principle in hydrostatics which goes by his name and his triumphant
shouts of Eurekra! Archimedes also solved several problems in mechanics. He
discovered 'the law of the lever' and the principle of moment of forces about
a point or a line. To illustrate the principle of the lever he is reported to have
remarked' Give I!le a lever long enough and I will lift the earth.' It was this idea
that led to simple machines like the wheel barrow. Archimedes also performed
crude forms of integration in his problems. He is also credited with the
invention of the screw and to have used it to invent a device to raise water.
According to some writers Archimedes helped the Greeks in warfare by burning
enemy ships with the help of powerful convex lenses and by focusing sunlight on the ships-through thes lenses. Heron invented a crude form of the
steam engine and other mechanical devices. The Greeks also made valuable
contributions to astronomy Next. came the Romans. They made hardly any
significant contribution to mathematics except perhaps for their clumsy numeral
system. The Romans however did a lot of counting (usually money) with a
stone called 'calculus'.
As for arithmetic India may be rightly proud of having laid its foundation.
The world will be forever indebted to the unknown Hindu mathematician who
invented the place value system (for numbers) and who above all invented th~
great number 'zero'. The place value system assigns a value to a digit by virtue
of its position in the number. For ego in the no. 23, 2 has a value of two tens
or twenty.
So 23 = 2 x 10 + 3. Similarly 233 = 233
2 x 100 + 3 X 10 + 3
and so on.

=

90

