The invention of the 'zero' is perhaps far more significant and revolutionary than the invention of the atom bomb or the rocket for without the great
digit, big mathematical calculations would have been impossible and scientific
and techonological progress would have come to an inevitable standstill. The
Arabs observing the superiority of ~he Indian system over the clumsy Roman
numerals introduced it in turn to their European conquests.
After this came the Dark Ages. There was a reign of terror and disease
all over the world. This period was also dark as far as mathematics was
concerned. However a few prominent mathematicians lived during this period.
Most important of them being Ptolemy and the Indian Aryabhatta.
Ptolemy laid the foundation for modern trigonometry. He also explained
the motion of the planets in a complicated (wrong!) way involving circles within
circles! This theory prevailed until Copernicus, Galileo and Newton- shattered it.
One reason for its popularity was that it agreed with the Biblical view that the
earth was the centre of the universe.
Aryabhatta made several contributions to algebra, geometry and
astronomy. He invented various ways of solving quadratic equations and for
extracting square roots and cube roots. He also calculated the value of 'IT and
found it to be 3'1416.
Another famous Indian mathematician who lived during the Dark Ages
was Bhaskara. He made original contributions in arithmetic and algebra. The
determination of the exact value of one of the most important constants in
mathematics is 1'1' the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter has
taxed mathematicians through the ages and even till the present day. Archimedes
was one of the first to make an accurate determination. He showed that the
value of 1f' lay between 3t~ and 3f~.
Aryabhatta found 'If' to be 3·1416 correct to 4 places of decimals.
Aryabhatta's value is considered sufficiently accurate for most scientific purposes
and is used widely to-day. More' accurate calculations of 'IT were made when
the theory of infinite series developed. One French mathematician had the
great patience to work out the value of '1f' elaborately to 700 decimal p]aces!
However modern electronic computers have succeeded in determining the value
of this important constant to well over a thousand decimal places. Quantities
like 'tT whose exact value can never be worked out are said to be incommensurable.
Other examples of such quantities (and there are several of them) are Aj 2, tJ 3
etc. The values of these quantities can however be obtained to any degree of
accuracy.
We have seen that Aryabhatta laid the foundation for algebra. However
most of the elementary algebra we use to-day was the work of Arab mathematicians who lived during the 'Dark Ages' or 'Middle Ages'. It is interesting to
note that in this dark period of world hisiory most of the knowledge of the
ancient Greeks was forgotten and lost to posterity. This knowled~e of th~

91

