Greeks was revived and rediscovered during the Renaissance period in Europe
This period saw several stars shining brightly in the mathematical sky. We shall
name a few of them. Copernicus, who shattered the extremely popular views
of Aristotle with his heliocentric theory.
Galileo dropped two stones of different weights from the leaning tower
of Pisa before a vast sceptical audience. The result of this famous experiment
is too well known to be mentioned here. Galileo was also the first to study
mathematically the motion of freely falling bodies and of oscillatiens of the
pendulum His work on the pendulum led to the invention of clocks and
watches. He also invented the astronomical telescope and with it made startling
discoveries which fully confirmed the heliocentric theory of Copernius. He
discovered the moons of Jupiter, the pbases of Venus and sunspots moving on
the surface of the SUD. By observing the motion of sunspots he deduced the
rotation period (on its own axis) of the sun (26 days). Galileo was subjected
to much persecution on account of his work but he was able to withstand the
ordeal bravely. About the same time as GaIiIeo, lived the great mathematician
Kepler. Kepler made use of the painstating observations made by Tycho Brahe
on the motion of the planets to obtain the laws of planetry motion for the first
time. He propounded three laws which made a complete description of the
mechanics of the solar system.
Galileo and Kepler were to inspire Newton a few years later. The
contributions made by Newton to various branches of mathematics and physics
are so many that it would be impossible to give a complete list of them here
He explained Kepler's laws with his theory of Universal Gravitation. He
condens~d the work of Galileo and also his own work into three elegant laws
known as Newton's laws of motion. These laws formed the basis for the
advancement of modern science and technology Newton also explained the
the colours of the rainbow, calculated the velocity of sound in air and discovered
the law of cooling of a hot body.
Newton also made the greatest single contribution to algebra - he
propounded Binomial the Theorem. Newton also has the great honour of
inventing differential calculus simultaneously with the German mathematician
Leibnitz. Newton had to invent the calculus to cope with the continuously varying
quantities in the problem of mechanics and it is of indispensable value
to workers in various fields of sceince and technology. His book 'Principia
Mathematicia' is one of greatest books of all time.
A work of great importance in mathematics is 'The Theory of logarihms '.
This was the work of one man - John N~pier. Napier first worked out a table
of logarthms (known as Naperian or Natural Logarthms). He used the famous
'e' as logarihmic base. The value of 'e' the Naperian Logarthmic base is again
incommensurable like ''IT'.

