The idea of using 10 as the logarthamic base was first given by Charles
Briggs. Logarithms have considerably simplified complicated mathematical
calculations. Before the invention of modern computers the use of logarithms
was the only reliable way to simplify intricate mathematica1 operations. The
usefulness of logarithms in this respect is strongly felt even in this age of
electronic computors.
The work of Newton and others inspired several men with the result that
there were great advances in mathematics in the 18th and 19th centuries, Here
again several names may be mentioned. The advances were specially prominent
in the field of applied mathematics and mechanics. The diffierential and integral
calculus were freely uscd in mechanics and physics. The great mathematician
Leonhard Euler solved several problems in particle and rigid body dynamics by
integrating differential equations. John Bernoulli developed for the first time the
principles of hydrodynamics and fluid flow. D'Alembert evolved his famous
principle in dynamics. Euler, Bernoulli and D'AIembert also made contributions
in pure mathematics. Joseph Lalrange evolved the famous general method of solv...
ing dynamical problems using differential equations based on virtual work and D'
Alember's principle. The Russian mathemaicians Ostrogradsky and Chebyshev
also made important contributions to both theoritical and appled mechanics as
as pure Mathematics. The Rus~ian Lyapunov established the Stablity theory in
mathematics and differantial equations.
Special mention must be made of the great French mathematician Laplace.
He made important contributions to mathematics and astronomy. 'Together with
the philosopher Kant he evolved the nebular hypothesis for explaining the origin
of the solar system. He also evolved several theorems in probability, modified
Newton s equation for the velocity of sound, made disco veres in the newly discovered phenomenon of electricity (chiefly that of eddy currents) and published
several treatises in mathematics and astronomy. Other prominent figures during
this time were Ferdinand Gauss the German mathematician who made important
contributions in magnetism, electricity and astronomy; and (2) Carnot who postu.
lated the theory of the steam-engine and laid ths foundation for the study of thermodynamics.
One of the greatest mathematicians and scientists of all time was Clerts
Maxwell who expressed the laws of electromagnetism in the form of elegant mathematical equations Using the powerful instrument of mathematics Maxwell carefully felt his way into the dark unknown realm of electremagnetism and came to
the starting conclusion that light, heat, iafra-red and other radiations are electromagnetic waves. His theory confimed on Wave theory of light. Maxwell paved
the way for the development of the radio and other electronic miracles of today!
He predicted that the human voice could be propagated through space without
wires and at the speed of light.
9

93

