Maxwell's theory was proved correct by the results of the experiments of
Hertz and Marwani. Maxwell's electromagnetic theory was undoubtedly one of
the greatest achievements of nineteenth century mathematics.
Another important landmark in mathematics in the nineteenth century was
the prediction of the existence of the planet Neptune before it was seen. It was
observed by mathematicians that the planet Uranus (discovered by Herschel) was
not exactly following its predicted path around the sun. It sometimes lagged behind or went too fast at other times. The suggestion was made that an unknown
planet was pulling on Uranus and tending to drag it away. Two mathematicians
John Adams of England aud Le Verrier of France using the data supplied by
observations of Uranus' orbit successfully worked out (on paper!) the exact
position of the unknown planet which was causing these discrepencies
When astronomers turned their telescopes to the spo~ predicted they saw
the new planet! This clearly showed the mathematical accuracy and correctness
of Newton's law of gravitation. It wa& under similar circumstances that Lowell
and Pictcering predicted the existence of the planet Pluto from perturburations
on Neptune's orbit. The planet Pluto was actually discovered by Clyde Tombaug
in 1930.
Pure mathematics also advanced greatly in the 19th Century. Riemann
postulated a new type of geometry different from that of Euclid. This is
known as non-Euclidean or Riemann geometry. Algebra also underwent
siginificant changes. The theory of matrices was postulated. The vast Physical
scope and sigi~ificance of matrices were recognised. Number theory advanced
a lot. Modern Algebra beean its appearance in the realm of mathematics.
Several methods to solve differential equations were postulated by Bessel,
Laplace, Euler and others.
Towards the end of the nineteenth century the famous Michelson - Morley
experiment was conducted, This experiment opened the door to one of the
greatest mathematical works of all time-The Theory of Relativity-by Albert
Eintsein. Using the Lorentz transformations (worked out a few years earlier by
Lorentz; Eintsein succeeded in deriving the many revolutionary and starting
conclusions of special relativity. The truth of his mass-energy equation was
clear1y demonstrated by the 'small' atom bombs (small by modern standards for,
~ the 50 megaton bomb is 2,500 times more powerful than these bombs!) which
completely wiped out the fine cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Einstein alao
developed a simple mathematical relation for the Photoelectric effect (discovered
by Hertz) and for this he got the Nobel Prize in 1921. Eintsein also extended
the tensor calculus and the non Euclidean Riemanan geometry theory of electroInagnetic radiation was worked out by Planck. Planck's radiation equation was
the starting point for the developme~t of modern quantum mechanics and
quantum physics. The great advances in physics made in the twentieth century
~imultaneously advanced mathematics. The probability wave theory of matte.

94

