developed by Schroedinger and Dirace required complicated partIal differential
equations. Modern Physics and electronics required plenty of mathmatics of a
very higb standard for its thorough understanding. This led to new methods for
solving dIfferential equations and new statistical analysis in probability theory.
The advent of the modern space age with its space rockets gave a great
boost to mathematics. The equations of Rocket motion and jet propulsion were
first quantitatively worked out by the great Russian space pioneer K. Tsiolkovsky
about th~ turn of the century. The Russians honoured his birth centenary by
launching the World's first artificial satellite in OcL 1957.
In modern science mathematics fiinds its place not only in science and
technology but is indispensable in almost evey sphere of human activity, Its
extensive applications in economics and economic theory, trade, market
research, stocks and shares, banking, clerical work and in Cact in the daiJy life
of the ordinary citizen.
Any account of the history of mathematics would be incomplete without
the mention of modern electronic computers. The need for such high speed
calculating machines was strongly felt during the second World War. The
possible trajectories of missiles had to be computed before they struck their
target. A brief outline of the history of calculating machines may be given
here. The first to invent an adding machine was the French genius Blaise Pascal
in the seventeenth century. The desk calculating machines now used in offices
was only a modification of this simple original device.
The next idea came from Oxford student Charles Babbage in 1822. Babbage
designed a machine which could handle numbers upto five digits. He had plans
for constructing a much larger machine. Unfortunately this was never built
as the mechanical engineering know-how of his time was not up to this formidable task. According to Babbage mathematical operations with numbers was the
lowest operation of the human brain., Thus his idea of a calculating machine.
8abbage's idea was taken up about a century later by Bush and his
colleaugues at the Massachessuts Institute of Technology. Bush made Babbage's
dream come true, although his machine had nothing to do with electronics. The
era of eleetronic computers began about the middle of the Second World War.
Goldstein was a pioneer in this field. He made the first computer 'the Eniac'.
Computers developed rapidly after the second world war. They could perform
arithmetical operations and solve differential equations millions of times faster
than the human brain. It was soon realised that computers would be extremely
useful in clerical work in offices and business houses. Such a computer could
duplicate the lifetime work of an ordinary clerk in two minutes 1 Computers
found their way into banks and insurance companies. The first electronic bank
clerk was 'Emma·. It weighed 25 tons. One difficulty about computers was
their size. Even this was considerably reduced with the invention of the
transistor by William Shockley. Computers shrank in size from that of a big

room to that of a small suitcase.
95

