The invention of computers was timely. Modern society is extremely
complex. The use of computers enabled banks, insurance companies and
business houses to serve the people and human society more efficiently. In
research work computers were a boon in solving complicated partial differential
equations.
The great achievements in space science and technology witnessed during
the last decade would have been impossible without computers which are
indispensable for solving the differential equations of rocket motion. Before
a rocket could be sent to the moon or Mars its exact trajectory or path had to be
predetermined. The human brain can never solve this problem in a short time.
As an illustration it may be remarked that at the beginning of this century it
took Dr Miller seven years to determine the exact orbits of Jupiter and Saturn.
But for the development of computers the launchini of Satellites would be a rare
occasion. Also the use of transistors reduced the size of computer building and
steering devices to one small enough to be used in ordinary rockets. The
invention and use of computers has led to a new kind of arithmetic which uses
only two digits (0 and 1) instead of the usual '10. This corresponds to the on
and off position of the flop-flop electronic tube.
Computer programming has developed into a new advanced branch of
modern mathematics. Computers will become more and more indispensable
as the functions of human society become more and more complicated. Mathematical techniques in engineering are replacing conventional techniques. This
is clearly indicated in the evolution of electronic automation technology. In
future the engineer will also be an expert mathematician. Even industrial
workers and manual labourers will depend far more on mathematics than on
their manual skill. As we have mentioned before the use of mathematics has
become indispensable in all spheres of human and social activity.
The 'Queen of the Sciences' as mathematics is so rightly called will
continue to progress steadily and rapidly in the future. Its progress will continue.
as long as the human race lasts. It has always helped man to think logically and
has enabled him to use it as the most powerful instrument to understand the
secrets of Nature and to use them for his to benifit.
Mention must be made of the great Indian mathematician Ramanujam.
His worth was entirely in the field of pure mathematics. He made original contributions to infinite series and number theory. It is interesting to note that his work
has found practical applications especially in the theory of pyrometry.
Ramanujam's co-worker was Professor Hardy. He is also one of the great
mathematicians of this century.
It is impossible to mention all th0se who have advanced the study of mathematic. and their contributions, However, most of the important contributions
ha ve been mentioned as far as possible.

*

*

96

*

