Reports
Institute G4mkhana General Committe
by Thomas Victor, General Secretary

THE year started with the election of 54 committee members to six Gymkhana
Committees. The Elections were very keenly contested tbis. time, andvictorious candidates with margins of one or two votes were not uncommon. Soon
after this the representatives were introduced to the students at the formal
inauguration of the Gymkhana. The speech by Mr Mohan Kumaramangalam
on this occasion was one of the best ever heard at lIT.
1966-67 was another good year for lIT in the field of extra-curricular
activities. The debating team proved itself to be the best in winning practically
all the inter -collegiate competitions held in the city. Not satisfied with this they
went all the way to Calcutta to win another trophy for lIT. Despite the absence
of Venkatesan the lIT Quiz team lived up to its reputation and like the
debating team have remained virtually unbeaten. It's best performance was
at the quiz held at IlT during the cultural week when Phillipos and Parameswaran
finished first and second beating contestants from more than 15 colleges. An
innovation tbis year was the popular Brains' Trust, a brainchild of the hard
working Literary Secretary Kamdar.
The Sports committee under Hameed must be congratulated for
having successfully completed the intra-mural tournaments. Our sports teams
especially in football, basketball, athletics and rowing fared well. More than 70%
of the prizes awarded at the Regatta held at the Madras Boat Club went to
rowers from lIT and the lIT "fours" team was selected to represent the Boat Club
at Colombo. The football team remained unbeaten in the intercollegiate league.
The basketball team under George Verghese's inspiring captaincy won all their
league matches and won the inter-liT Basketball title with ease. The Athletics
team put up a very good show at the Intercollegiate Athletic Meet and were
unlucky in finishing 2 points behind YMCA. At full strength we are second
only to Christian College. A Skating Club had come into being and is expanding
rapidly under Rana's able management.
The Outdoor Club has become part of the Gymkhana with Neela..
megham as its first secretary. Its activities, such as hiking, cycling, rockclimbing, katamaran rides, eto. are in full swing. Honorary member R. Jaikumar

1

