has been appointed Joint Leader of the All India Expedition to Mt. Sasir Kangri,
the highest unclimbed peak in the world. Jaikumar was also named the Leader
of the most succes~ful expedition of 1966,
The Publications committee led by M. G. Subrahmanyam and S. Ramajayam centinued to work around the clock as usual, bringing out "Campastimes"
which is easily the best college newspaper in the city.
The Fine Arts committe deserves a pat on the back for
perhaps, the best Arts & Science Fair so far. There were a
entries for both the Science and Art sections-thanks to a lot
in by the Secretary, V. C. Jacob and his comnlittee members.
Art Room and Photography Room have been set up.

having organised,
record number of
of hard work put
The long awaited

V. Gopal and co. provided us with entertainment of high level throughout the year. The Charity Show arranged by them and Mrs. Sengupto was
a great success, more than Rs. 7000/-being collected for the Seva Samaj
Childrens's Home. Vijayan, Rao, Raghavan, Basheer and others put up a good
show at the MIT intercollegiate entertainment competition and won the trophy
for the best team. The Film Club continued to, run smoothly with S. Subra·
maniam and Arnie Ahmed at the helm.
Shah Nawaz Bukht, secretary of the external Affairs Committee, feeling
perhaps that his committee had nothing to do, organised a Psychology Study
Circle with Mr. T. N. Govindarajan's help and arranged a few interestinng
lectures by eminent psychologists.
I would like to thank all the students for the keen: interst they have shown
in all Gymkhana functions, and the staff members in charge of all the activities.
The Gymkhana President, Prof. P. C. Varghese providing guidance from the top
continued to be a stabilizing influence. It is unfortunate that the Gymkhana will
not have the benefit of his guidance and leadership next year. Finally I would
like to wish my successor the best of luck.

*

*

*

Sports Commitee

THE elections for the Sports Representative of various hostels were

held in the
middle of August, 1966.
Abdul Hameed was unanimousl) chosen to be the Sports Secretary. The
honour of providing the person for the top student post in the Institute
Gymkhana, incidentally, went to our Committee when Thomas Victor was
elected as the General Secretary.

