The Inter Hostel Tournaments {or the Schroeter Cup got under way soon
after the setting up of the Committee. There was a keen sense of participation
among the various hostels and many were the instances when the top favourites
were toppled. The Annual Sports Day was held on 11th March, 1967. Tapti and
Ganga tied for the overall Championship.
The Inter I. J. T. Meet was held this time in Bombay from Dec. 21, '66 to
January 1st 1967. Tremendous improvement was shown by the rival teams
especially of Delhi and Kanpur. Bombay and Kharagpur were, as usual, concern ..
ed in a ding-dong battle, all through tke meet and the former just managed to
beat the latter by a solitary point, to wrest the General Championship from the
holders, Kharagpur. We won the Basketball Championship and were runners-up
in Football and Tennis. However, we could finish only fifth in the overall
championshi p.
Our teams entered the Madras Inter-Colleliate League Championships
in various games and did considerably well. Special mention has to be made about
our Basketball and Footbal teams which remained unbeaten. We participated
in the Athletics championship too and came a close third behind the YMCA
College of Physical Education and the Madras Christian college, Joshi Paul, and
Venkateswaran gave outstanding performances.

J. E. T. Sargunar won the '1956' Cup for the most outstanding Oarsman
in the Annual Regatta conducted by the Madras Boat Club. One of the two teams
sent by Madras to represent it at the All Asian Regatta held in Colombo fully
consisted of I. I. Tians, viz .• Nayyar, Reddy, Sargunar and Dutta.
R. Jaikumar, the crack mountaineer and an ace member of our Outdoor
Club led a successful All India Varsities expedition to Mount Shilla (23,000 ft. and
odd). George Verghese and G. Srikanth (by now an ex-IITian) were also members
of the triumphant team.
The report will not be complete without a word of thanks for our esteemed
President, Prof. P. C. Varghese. He has given his full support and encouragement
to all the ventures of the committee. But for the generous attention he has
showered upon us all through the year we would not have been able to satisfy
the vast variety of tastes of the IlTians to as large an extent as has been possible
now. We take this opportunity to thank him whole-heartedly.

-Abdul Hameed, Secretary.

*

*
3

*

