THE OUT-DOOR CLUB
(4 Subcommittee in the Sports Committee)

the foundation of this club had already been laid in the previous
year, this year the club became a part of the Institute Gymkhana. Mr. Goetz
was selected the Staff advisor.
THOUGH

The club has now got a strength of sixty includinB a few staff members.
The Mt. Shilla Expedition members Mr. R. laikumar (Leader), Mr. George
Verghese, and Mr. G. Srikanth were made honorary members of the club, and
Mr. Jaikumar was nominated the first member of the club. We are pleased to
announce that he has been appointed the Joint Leader of the All India Expedi.
tion to Mt. Sasir Kangri, the highest un climbed peak in the world (25000 ft). This
expedition is to be carried out this summer.
The various activities of the club included hiking, cycling, rock climbing,
etc. There were in all fourteen trips made during the year. We congratulate
Mr. Gopal Ramachandran for his wonderful performance of cycling, from Poona
to Bangalore.in ten days. Mr. KabHan also deserves mention for his improvising a
rexine table cloth for a tent and using it in Ooty during this winter (4°C). He
hitch-hiked for about 400 miles, covering Mysore, Nanjangode, Bandipur Forest,
Ooty, Coimbtore and Trichy in about four days.
At present the club has as its equipments a few sets of cooking utensils,
stoves, and of course, life jackets (made in liT). In the years to come we
think that it wil1 have enough equiplncnt to sponsor Himalayan expeditions and
the like: And we are deeply indebted to Prof. Varghese for sanctioning enough
money fOf buying more equipment.
Fiaally my thanks go to the various members of the club, especially the
,the hostel representatives who have helped the club come up to a standard
worth reporting.

-R. Nee lamegham , Seeretary

*

*

*

The Literar4 Committee
year under review was a great success for the Literary Committee, not only
.
from the point of view of organisation and planning but also for the response
and the reaction of the students. Having decided to offer the students at least two
events a month, we charted out a detailed plan fOf. the first term -and succeeded
in keeping to it.
THE

4

