The response for the Annual Debate almost swept us off our feet! For the
first time a preliminary selection was necessitated. The finals saw the eclipse of
our ace debaters Kacker and Shankar at the hands of Arnir Ahmed. But then this
year was full of surprises. Parameswaren repeated the trick and unseated the veterans Phillipose and Thomas Victor at the Annual Quiz-proving thereby that there
are quite a few dark horses lurking in the Campus.
The Annual Group Discussion went off well in spite of the faulty P. A.
system. It was an honour for us to have the visiting German student delegation
at the occasion. The discussions this year were extempore and therefore more
natural and interestiug. Kacker and Shankar shouldered the Saraswatbi team to
victory.
Having finished the traditional items, the committee came up with the
Brains Trust which was announced with due fanfare. Prof. Ramaseshan stole
the show with his witty answers while Dr. Armin Klein kept the audience roaring
with his funny 'little stories'. The others were not be outdone and kept the
audience lively till the very end.
If the Brains Trust was a success with a capital S, our other brainchild
the Mock Parliment-was stillborn. We just didn't seem to get over the technical
difficulties, e.g. the elaborate mike system in time. Much spade work, has been
done, and we hope the next year's committee can capitalise on this.
The Inter-Hostel Quiz attracted a packed house and was another feather in
our cap. Narmada Hostel romped home to victory with a ~omfortable margin.
That brings us to the piece de resistence-the Annual Literary & Cultural
Week. Though we had more than our usual share of trials, tribulations, and
troubles, the infectious enthusiasm of the staff and students carried us through.
There was more colour at the All India Debate as representatives from the
women's colleges came forward to take up the cudgels on behalf of the 'weaker'
sex. They certainly out· talked the boys-which isn't surprising- but Shankar out
smarted them and ran off with the first prize. The tussle for the team trophy and
the remaining prizes was a close affair between the girl's colleges.
Ethiraj College won the Team trophy, and Miss U. Ramachandran and
Miss R. Shanmugam weve placed second and third respectively.
German Recitation was again a hotly contested affair. Max Mueller
Bhavan was determined to rench it away from us. They changed their tactics this
year and send a couple of girls along and, - well, they succeeded. Mrs. Varada.
rajan of Max Mueller and Kamdar of lIT stood first and second respectively.
Prof. Thangaraj conducted the Quiz in his characteristic style. Though in
the earlier stages we nostalgically thought of our quiz wizard Venkatesan, Al~x

5

