and Parameswaran soon came into their own and bagged the first and second prize
respectively. The team trophy was shared by the School of Architecture and the
Madras Christian College. The Group Discussion was handicapped by a lack of
entries-finally only six colleges turned up. Yet those that did turn up, did really
well and it must have been quite a problem for the judges to pick out the winner.
the Law College emerged victorious with the S. I. E. T. Women's College second
The city colleges do seem to have picked up quite a lot about this much neglected
literary item and one can only hope that next year it will find sponsors other than

liT.
The Literary Committee il deeply grateful to the many staff members who
were of great help from time to time. We are particularly thankful to Prof.
Sampath, Dr. Varghese, Dr. N. Klein, Dr. Anantharaman and Dr. N. V. Chandra.
sekhar Swamy for their guidance and advice. I should also like to to thank the
other members of the committee for their infectious enthusiasm and hard work.
But the greatest thanks should go to our patrons -the studentl-for flocking to
our functions in large numbers.

-Bharath Babulal Kamdar, Secretar)'.

*

*

*

Entertainment Committee
starting of on an account of the year's achievements, modesty compels us
to apologise for blowing our own trumpet-well if we don't who will? And
speaking of trumpets we would like to point out that though our functions
always included a good deal of music, there was no domination of any
one group. There was no dearth of entries and we were often forced to have a
preliminary selection.
BEFORE

The year, for us, started with the Charity Show on August 8 in aid of
the Seva Samajam Children's Home-our neighbours. In this case, charity began
with our J).eigbbours rather than at home. The function was remarkable for the
vast cooperation that made it a success. The function was a star-studded one and
a financial success.
The new feature in this year's inter-hostel eompetition was the participation of the Ladies' hostel. They were so well represented on the stage that
bardly any of them could be found in the audience. In spite of rather active
audience participation, the function went orf without a hitch, Jamuna retaining
the Bngineering Unit's Trophy, though having to share it with Godavarii'

