The Inter-eotleliate competition for Prof. Narayanamurthi's Trophy
was remarkable for the tolerant attitude of the audience. The S. I. E. T.
women.' college bagged the trophy with a performance which was noted for its
variety and good organisation. There was a magic show by Prof. Bhattacharya
(of Water of Ganges fame) at the Oat earlier in the year.
The German Jazz programme was a hit with the audience, especial1y
Andrea Horn's rendering of 'Hello Dolly'. The pantomime by Rolf Scharre
was another memorable evening's entertainment.
Througll Mr. Coward of the USIS we were able to hear the origInal
sound-tracks of 'Oklahoma' and 'Kiss me Kate.'
The chief-guest for the Bharathi day was Jayakanthan, the well-Known
writer and film producer. His speech provided much food for thought. The BeatX are among the doubloons with their winning the Musical Knock-Out (the
popular choice) and the All India Beat Meet.
IIT t s light music orchestra walked away with the staff trophy at the M. I. T.
Music Competition. OUf team took part in the entertainment programme
arranged by the Psychology Association. We presented an english play 'Thread
0' Scarlet' at the inter-collegiate entertainment competition of the college.of
Engineering, Guindy.
The films screened by our film club this year were a trifle better than the
normal run of films, thanks to S. Subramaniam and B. Amir Ahmed. The
cartoons were a treat and the audience went for them in a big way.
The months have sped by rapidly, but we are left with pleasant memories
of the year9s entertainme.t. The committee was on its toes right through the
year. The upward trend in the standard of entertainment, will, we hope,
persist.

-v. Gopa/,

Secretary.

*
fine Arts Committee.

TH!

Fine Arts Committee for this year consists of D. Venkappaya (Kaveri)
I. P. Singh (Krishna) V. C. Jacob (Narmada), Ramkumar Nayar (Tapti),
S. Venkatapathi (Saraswati), Suraj Alexander (Godavari), Karve (Ganga),
P. J. Ananthakrishnan (Jamuna) and Sukand Jain (Alakananda). Mr. H. Jo Ebert

graciously consented to continue as the staff-in-charge this year also. Soon after
7

