the committee was formed, the activities for the year were planned. We decided to
conduct various internal and inter-collegiate competitions and, to set up an Art
Room and a Photography Room.
During the first term, competitions in greeting card design, photography
and sketching were conducted. The participation in these competitions were
certainly not upto our expectations. We were forced to print old designs of
greeting cards since a suitable design did not come up this year. Among the
participants in the photgraphy and sketching competitions, a few were promising.
By the end of the first term, the cellar in Narmada Hostel was ready to
accommodate the Art-Room. Facilities for painting in oils are now available in
the Art Room, which was opened at the beginning of the second term. A number
of promising artists have been making good use of the facilities available.
A room in Tapti Hostel was secured for the purpose of getting up a
photography-room. Developing and contact-printing can now be carried out
there. Efforts are being made to obtain more facilities this year itself. Meanwhile,
our photography enthusiasts have formed a 'Photography club.'

Inter-collegiate competitions in photography, painting and sketching were
conducted during the Cultural Week in Febtuary. The entries formed a part of
the Arts and Science Bxhibition whIch was the result of a considerable amount of
effort by the committee. Many Colleges sent in entries for the painting
and sketching competitions. The number of entries to the photography section,
howevet, were not considerable. In all the sections. our Institute was well
represented.
The science section of the Arts and Science Exhibition indicated an increas..
ing interest on the part of the students in building their own projects. U mesh
Achia and Umesh Dutta were placed fist and second respectively for their project
work.
The Cascinating models which were displayed, drew, large crowds to the
exhibition. '
A number of people have helped the committee, in organising the various
activities this yeae. Special mention must be made of the Engineering Section
and the Workshops. Mr. Ebert, the staff-in-charge and Prof Varghese the
President of the Institute Gymkhana have shown keen interest in our activities
thoughout the year.

- V. C. Jacob, Seeretary.

*

*
8

*

