The Publications Committee
year we faced a big problem - the problem of acquiring a suitable Press.
A month and a half had to be spent on this, before the regular work
could be started.

THIS

More copies of C:lmpastimes-about 1800 per issue on the average-were
turned out this year. The Institute, as some would phi ase it, is growing from
strength to strength, and we made sure that every student got his (or her) copy.
The response to our call for articles gave us a surprise, and not a pleasant
one at that. The Editor wishes to thank those few stalwarts who kept our paper
going. In spite of these stalwarts, we have regrets-for we can only bring out
five issues this year. Six was our target.
The regular columnists of Campastimes have never let us down.
A. Hameed with his 'Sportfolio', S. Bukth with his 'The Moving Finger Writes,'
and Mr. T. N. Govindrajan with his 'Psychofolio' did good jobs. 'Over a
cup of Aye Aye Tea' has reached new heights with the advent of Vijay Reddy.
The same difficulties about the Press are bound to be present during the
next academic year also. It would be of a great help if the Institute had a press
of its own. Not only Campastimes and the Annual Magazine but also all the
publications of the departments and the academic section could be dono, we
feel, far more easily and cheaply.
The year also saw the publication of the Special Supplement to Campastimes laying emphasis on Science and Technology. It contains articles of a general
scientific interest by people of such eminence as Sir C. V. Ramrn, Dr. K.S.G.
Doss, Mr. S.M. Patil, and Dr. Lal G. Verman.
The committee's thanks go to Prof. Varghese and Prof. Sampath for their
guidance and to the non-members who have willingly belped us with our work in
times of need. I thank the members of the Committee for the hard work they
put in, aDd all the students for their healthy criticism and help.
-So Ramajayam, Secretary

*

*

*

Social Service and External Relations Committee:
Report writing is by itself quite an unpleasant job. But when one has to
write a report on nothing the task becomes formidable. Because certain cpndj..

14

