THE PERSONAL BOOKSHOP
IO·CONGRESS BUILDING) 111, MOUNT ROAD, MADRAS-6
Telegrams: PSYCHE
Telephone: 4 4421 6

The Explosion of Science: The Physical Universe
Edited by Sri Bernard Lovell and Dr. Tom Margerison
"Scientists themselves are astonished", wrote Albert Einstein, at their own
accomplishments of just the past fifteen years. The rate at which knowledge, and
consequently power, accumulates in our hands amazes them."
Science, and the
technology which it informs, have indeed exploded, into a massive endeavour and
achievement at a pace which changes the world as we walk in it and reveals a
a universe almost beyond the stretch of man's imagination.
The book has been created by two brilliant editors: Sir Bernard Lovell,
FRS, Director of Jodrell Bank and Professor of Radio Astronomy at the Univ.
of Manchester, and Dr. Tom Margerison, formerly editor of the NEW
SCIENTIST, and now science Editor of the SUNDAY TIMES, and a frequcnt
broadcaster on radio and television. Each has contributed a chapter and each of
the six further authors is a specialist in his field, in the forefront of research on
the work he describes.
The excitement and wonder of the world of science are caught by the
illustrations of which 143 are in full colour-the latest applications of colour
photography to science and many specially created drawings. The illustrations
have been gathered from all over the world; they show how the scientist sees the
universe from the most minute to the cosmic scale-from the details of a crystal
revealed by the electron microscope to a nebula millions of light years distant.
Text and pictures together, beautifully produced in a size which gives
unique scope for fine detail, provide knowledge and understanding for which, in
the words of Ernest Renan, "Aristotle would have given his life".

Rs. 132-30
216
143
198
144
AN

pages with
plates in full colour,
Black and white plates,
drawings in two colours and
INDEX AND BIBLIOGRAPHY.

RESERVE YOUR COpy NOW AND SAVE Rs. 22-00

BOOKSELLERS, TO TH/E WORLD OF LEARNING
--------------------------------------------------------------~
18

