TIlE Ul1ERI CK

Of all the literary art forms, the one that appears, and in fact is really
difficult to cornpose, is The Limerick. This nonsense-verse fonn is a five line
piece in anapaestic trimeter. The anapaestic short syllables that open the
limerick line - one short syllable usually being dropped at the beginning - is
what makes the liveliness and bounce of the limerick form.
The limerick had come to be recognized as a literary art form over a
century ago and has held its place since then as the chosen vehicle of cultivated,
if unrepressed, sexual hUll10ur in the [ng1ish language. It is, and was originally,
an indecent verse form. The clean limerick is an obvious palliation with insipid
content, artificial rhyming and a touch of frustrated nonsense that vents itself
in aggressive violence.
The clean limerick fad started in the early 1960's when the reprint of Edward
Lear's BOOK OF NONSESE inspired PUtICH to seize upon the form. At the same time,
Charles Godfrey Leland's anonymous imitation of lear-YE BOOK OF COP2ERHEADS - with
limericks directed against the Northern copperhead defeatists and the anti-Lincoln
agitators during the civil war, introduced this form under the name of 'nonsense
rhymes' 1n America. Immediately afterwards, PUNCH announced a limerick contest.
The entries - a disconcerting number of bawdy and sacrilegeous limericks submitted
anonymously - forced PUNCH to close the contest with a slam, putting an end to the
fad of clean limericks. Since then the clean limericks has lived on filfully only
as the last resort of newspaper poets hard-up for witty fillers and as advertising
contest pap from time to time;
Over fifty years later, Langford Reed attempted to revive the fad of clean
limericks by publishing a thoroughly expurgated - COMPLETE LIMERICK BOOK in 1924.
He wrote to all the literary panjandrumsof the 1920's asking what they thought of his
project. These were some of the rep 1i es he recei ved:
From Arnold Bennet: 'In reply to your letter, all I have to say about limericks
is that the best ones are entirely unprintable.'
From George Bernard Shaw: 'There are several personal limericks by D.G.Rossetti
and some by Swinburne. which became known 1n their generation, but like the large
number of geographical limericks which preceded them they are mostly unfit for
publication. They must be left for oral tradition •••• •
From Arthur W1mperis: 'The only limericks in mY experience, of any literary
merit are distinctly Rabelaisian. Beside these, the more polite and printable
examples fade away into the dim haze of mediocrity.'

