This chorus of plain statements almost crushed Langford Reed's project.
On the other side of the Atlantic. the consensus of opinion has been the same.
Don Harquis is reported to have divided limericks into three kinds: Limericks
to be told when ladies are present; limericks to be told when ladies are absent
but clergymen are present and LIMERICKS. Prof. MorriS Bishop, the unquestionable
master in the clean limerick line. has put the essence of his art into verse, thus:
The limerick's furtfve and mean;
You must keep her in close quarantine,
Or she escapes to the slums
And promptly becomes
Disorderly, drunk and obscene.
The earliest collection of erotic limericks known to have exitted is a twelvepage document chastely entitled NEW BOOK OF UONSENSE. This was followed by a larger
collection, CYTHERA's HYMNAL which was a joint production of captain Ed~ard Sellon,
student of Hindu eroticism, and George Augustus Sala, a war correspondent. Later,
bawdy limericks apeeared in THE PEARL - an extraordinary erotic magazine published
secretly in London. It was then that the limerick became the underground showcase
and receptacle of all the most repellent erotic imaginings, the most scatalogica1
satire and aggreSSion, ~I cl the sickest sexual fears and fantasies of the nineteenth
and twentieth centuries, passed off always as wit, among the better educated and
presumably more cu1tivat~d classes. And it still remains that.
Limericks are the fo1k expression almost solely of the college group, particularly
the profesoors, concentrating specifically on the bawdy limerick. The bawdy limerick
remains thereafter the special delectation of college-educated men (and a few disoriented women nowadays), especially those in the quasi-intellectual professions
such as journalism, publishing, advertising, stock-jobbing, law and politics, and
the entertainment arts. Limericks are not only the folklore almost solely of the
educated, but are almost their only folklore, with the exception of jokes and
tales - including a large number credulously believed to be true - and a limited
repertoire of bawdy and sentimental songs remembered from college days.
One last observation about the limerick d~e to Prof. Brander Ivlathews: 'The
humble limerick has the distinction of being the only fixed (poetic) form which
is indigenous to English.'
- Condensed from an i ntroducti on to
THE LIMERICK by G. Legman.
(Panther Books).

