ON HOSTEL r11\GS

Its verJ exhilarating to note tilat lIT is not devoid of all thdt 'enthu' one
expects from a talented crowd. This is evident from the fact that there are now five
hostels that boast of hostel mags as against two last sem. The two mags which came
to be known, last sem, were j·1andak's REFLECTOR and Jamuna's TURBINE. TURBINE, unlike
REFLECTOR grew famous overnight and it attracted readers from other hostels. The man
at the controls ~as N.Shanker - no new person to be reckoned within lIT. His style
of writing as well as the topics he chose to write on, entertained the readers, so
much so that even the laziest person around would crane his neck to read what was in
it. TURBINE enjoyed a very good reputation last sem.
Handak 's REFLECTOR dese rved more popu 1ari ty than ; t got for a11 the efforts that
went into the making of eaen issue. Every hostel event ../as covered~ interviews were
featured and limericks on various incidents in the hostel were put up. A limerick
and a caption competition were also held. The captions and limericks churned out
were good, and the readers of the mag belonged to an appreciative crowd. REFLECTOR
too. enjoyed a good reputation last sem.
The hostel mags that one comes across now include Jamuna·s TURBINE, Saras 1 JIGSA\~t
Tapti s I FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, Narl1)ada I s THE wRITING ON THE WALL and Sarayus' SCROLL.
TURBINE has stepped down in quality this sem and there is nothing much in it
that drives the inmates of other hostels to Jamuna to read it. The notable things
TURBINE did this sem. was hold a Limerick Competition and a Treasure Hunt in their
hostel. The Limerick Competition apparently elicited a good response, although the
same coul dn' t have been sa; d of the readabi 1i ty of the 1imer; cks. The Treasure Hunt
went off well. The clues were good and quite a good number went about solving them.
TURBINE can improve and live ~p to the reputation it enjoyed last sem.
Saras' JIGSAW run by Calci &GCP is more often a comic strip than anything else.
It becomes ,far from entertaining when these comic strips are replaced by an 'article' a hash of flamboyant words which the intelligent reader will not find fit to interpret.
For such readers JIGSAW holds competitions almost every week and there seems to be
a reasonably good response to these competitions.
Vyi n9 wi th JIGSAW for honours in art work is Tapti's FOR YOUR EYES ONLY run by

Kanchan Panth and Co. The artist. Anil K.N., is an expert at redrawing Dennis the
I~enace. Prof. Calcul us and such other comic characters. The layout is superb and
Kanchan Panth and Co. deserve credit for taking pains to bring out every issue even
when bogged down by a lack of contributions from their fellow Taptians •

