SHORT STOR Y•••••

It was a cold winter morning in the Bangalore City station. The air hung
heavily as the dawn spread reluctantly across the sky. The cold air had its effect
on Mr. Avinash. of the f1inistry of Forests, as he boarded a west bound train.
Avinash had plodded through life 1n a desultory fashion, until he found his nichequi te by acci dent. One would not till nk hi s 31 years mi sspent when one observes the
grave contentment that glows on his face usually. He had had an uneventful childhood
and youth. He was an ideal example of what one would call a 'shallow youth'. Having
entered an institution of national importance by mistake, he emerged a few years
later with a degree in engineering. He realised his mistake and made up by acquiring
a few degrees in biology. Although a student of engineering he had an interest in
gods creatur81 He then made Nature his profession and for a last years experienced
the pleasurable satisfaction that comes only to those lucky men who make their hobby
their profession. Things had gone along splendidly with him even attaining a certain
degree of eminence in his profesiion.

****
The train started ~'.lith a jerk and puffed slowly through the sleeping city.
The deni zens of thi s beaut; ful ci ty 1; ke to get the ei ght hours - or more if poss ib 1e.
There is something lazily beautiful about the state of Karnataka. Ti1e people are
slo'l', solid and steeped in royal tradition. The western highlands are full of virgin
forests and lowlands dotted with temples wearing looks of deserted lovel1nessthe monarchs who bui lt them h.", long since passed into oblivion.
The train reached its destination 1n the still afternoon. The journey had no
impact on Ivtr. Avinash, who nonnally 1s filled with joy as the train puffs through
ravines and up hills, The Hassan-Hangalore railway section is as beautiful as it is
hazardous. The journey through the ghats is worth it for the view itself. The
plantations come first - coffee, cardamom and cloves. As we proceed further the
plantations slowly merge into the forest - real thick forest.
Mr. Avinash was helped off the train by his peon who had come witn the Jeep to
receive him. The Peon was a country youth who had a dog-like devotion to Mr.Avinash.
The devotion was for several reasons, the most important of them being the fact that
he was from the city and could speak English and that h~ possessed electronic items.
He was a good servant and the enthusiasm with which he performed his duties made up
for his abyssmal stupidity. Avinash liked him for his unaffected Sincerity and rather
liked the prattle of Rama (that was his name) 1n the evenings when Rama was Wont

