to air out his somewhat extraordinary views on things like ghosts. It was a unique
master-servant relationship, marred only on these occasions when Avinash had attempted
to impart education (attempts that he gave up in despair for reasons we have already
menti oned) •
It was an eight kilometer drive to the establishment. The jeep took a long time
to negotiate it as the terrain was difficult. There were only four educated people
in the establishment. The 'boss' ~'/ho disliked the forest and spent most of his time
in the iletrorolis tailing t1inisters and other men of influences for a transfer (and
a promotion). The only other person formally in the Department was a very elderly
man who was an entymologist officially but really a philosopher. He seldom spoke and
went about wi til hi s duti es very formally. The thi rd was a Doctor named Kapoor not
connected as such wi t:, the department. A medi ca 1 man whose i nteres ts requi red him
to be in such a place.He had retired from a practice after becoming a widower two
years previously and had associated himself -\"ith the establishment. He ~/as a
student of ferns and orchids, apart from being a photographer of no mean capacity.
His medical qualification, his grey hairs and friendliness soon made him an integral
part of this small comnunity. Hewas a good friend of Avinash, a mutual interest in chess
having brought them together.

****
"Have some tea" said Dr. Kapoor, smiHng at his younger companion.
"Thanks," said Avinash.
"We 11 ,(Ihat happen'd?"
There was a si lence. Dr. Kapoor unders toad. He di d not want to harp on teo
sharply on the young ma~s
intimate feelings. Like a man who has seen much of
the world he changed the topic.
"Did I tell you, what happen'd yesterday. I had left early in the morning to study
the characteristics of the mauve spotted orchid. As you may know this grows in the
higher and less aceessible portions of the teak tree. Having reached
there I was busy copyi ng notes when from behi nd I was attacked by a pi t vi per. I. .. ".
"Enough, Kapoor, Both you and the snake have my sympathi es • But I 1am hardly
i n the mood to 11 s ten to it."
"You sound quite brusque, old friend, what is the matter."
"The r'1inistry;I have been here five years now. When I called on my friend in
the Ministry in Bangalore he said that I was being given another assignment. He didn't
know what it was but he was certain that I will not retain the present position.
That means I have to leave this place, leave everything.", he concluded with a wild
look in -his eyes.

