FOOTBALL REPORTS
The

~ooter

match between Godav and Narmada was expected to be a cake-walk

for Narmanda.

The Narmada team looked to be oozing with confidence (or

was it overconfidence) at the start.

Godav, with all its players in Royal

blue, seemed undaunted by the#reputation of their opponents and proceeded
to display thier ball skills.

In the first half Narmada made a few con-

-certed attempts and nearly succeddad in bringing down the Godav bastion.
But the lion-hearted Godav defenders foiled their attempts time and again.
On one particular occasion, Narmada seemed to have scored off a free-kick
but by an act of divine providence the ball hit the crossbar.
was taken by Chandran.

This kick

For Godav, Manoj made one or two penetrating solo

runS only to meet the great Wall of Narmada- their Goalkeeper.

Wali gave

admirable support to Manoj.
The sucond-half was generally a replay of the first, with Godav having the
better of the exchanges.

The Narmada Goalie was stranded twice during

this session but the chances went abegging due to poor shooting.

Vasu,

Narmada's ace of trumps was very ably marked by Slice who didn't allow_
Vasu even a look at the ball.

The Gadav defence proved to be as impene-

-trable as any Great Wall should be with Pai in particular putting up
stellar performance.

The halves, Vaidy, Kiran and Sliee scotched any

hopes of a Narmada win by thwarting every move of their's.

Finally

the match ended in 9 g0911e9s draw with the GoaHv emerging moral victors
in this battle royal.
The Alak - Jamuna match was marked by a spries of C
and the like.

~

trys, near misses

The number of chances muffed by the two teams were so

many that one was hard put to keep count.

The Institute Captain, Machan

made all the moves for Alak which is usual but unusually and unfortunately
the forwards looked as if they were playing blindfolded, goofing time
and again.

Zico and Vivek

had directed some good shots at the goal

only to see the ball either go out

o~

parried well by the goalie.

Jamuna, Kartik, Sarabh and Panda defended exceptionally well.
and done, the match ended in a fmmgettable goa11e5s draw.

~AG,H U &- SU

BO.DH

For

All said

