CAMPASTIMES

Impure Mathematics
Once upon a time (I/t), pretty little Polly Nomial was strolling
across a field of vectors when she came across the edge of a singularly
large matrix.
Now Polly was convergent and her mother had made it an absolute
condition that she must ne,'er enter such an array without her brackets
-on. Polly. however, who had changed her variables that morning
and was feeling particularly bad behaved, ignored this condition 011
the grounds that it was insufficient and made her way in amongst the
complex clements,
Rows and columns enveloped her on all sides. Tangents approached
her surface. She became tensor and tensor. Quite suddenly, three
branches of a hyperbola touched her at a single point. She oscillated
violently, lost all sense of directrix, and went completely di,'ergcnt.
As she reached a turning point, she tripped over a square root protruding from an erf (error function) and plunged headlong down a steep
gradient. 'Vhen she was differentiated once more she found herself,
apparently alone, in :!. non-Euclidean space.
She was being watched, however, by that smooth operator, Curly
Pi (1'). As his eyes devoured her curvilinear coordinates, a singular
ex"pression crossed his face. 'Vas she still convergent, he wondered.
He decided to integrate improperly at once.
Hearing a vulgar fractioR behind her, Polly turned round and saw
Curly Pi approaching her with his power series extrapolated. She
could see at once by his degenerate conic and his dissipative terms,
that he was bent on no good.
, Eureka! ' she gasped.
, Ho, ho ! ' he said, 'what a symmetrical little Polly Xomial you
are. I can. see you are absolutely bubbling o,·er with sees.'
• Oh Sir,' she protested, 'keep away from me. I haven't got my
brackets on.'
• Calm ycurself, my dear,' said ollr suave operator, 'your fears are
purely imaginary.'

• i, i,' she thought. 'Perhaps he's homogeneous then 1 •
, What order are you? • the brute deman4ed.
, Seventeen,' replied Polly.
Curly leered. • I suppose you've never been operated on yet?' he
said.
• Of course not,' Polly cried indignantly. 'I'm absoluteJy convergent.'
, Come, come,' said Curly, 'let's go off to a decimal place I know
and I'll take you to the limit.'
• Kever !' gasped Polly.
, EXCHLF I' he swore, using the vilest oath he kne\v. His
patience was gone. Cosing her over the coefficient with a log until
she was powerless, Curly removed her discontinuities. He stared at
her significant places and began smoothing her points of inflexion.
Poor Polly. All was up. She felt his hand tending to her asymptotic
limit. Her convergence would soon be gone forever.
There was no mercy, for Curly was a Heayy side operator. He
integrated by parts. He integrated by partial fractions. The complex
beast even went all the way and did a contour integration. What an
indignity to be multiple connected on her first integration. Curly went
on operating till he was completely and absolutely orthogonal.
When Polly got home that e~'ening, her mother noticed that she
had been truncated in several places. But it was too late to differentiate now. As the months went by Polly increas~d monotonically.
Finally she generated a small but pathological function which left
surds al: o,'er the place until sh.: was driven to qistraction.
The moral of our sad story is: If you want to keep you~ expressions
con"ergent, never allow them more than a single degree of freedom •
(Reprint from Scope, Journal of the Federation of University
Societies)

~stronomical

