CAMPASTIMES

2

NAMASKAARA
Shashidhara

I was taking Illy usual eveOlog leg-wag.
Rather enJoYlOg the stIli and hushed warmth.

There Came from ahead on a scooter. a
pleasant young chap and pleasanter wife. I
did not notice them much. But they stopped
by me They got . off the scooter. The man
propped the standard. They stood side by
side and with scnous set faces, started to take
off their slippers. Having unshppered, stood
barefoot on the hot a~phalt and solemnly
folded their hands in a Namaskaara to me.
I was subject to much bewilderments,
perplexatJ~ns and flummoxen. I did not
recogoise them at all. Still less recognise, why
they were doing what they were doing. Though
10 a daze I managed to myself unsllpper
(thought it only civil to) and return the
Namaskaara.

Before r could say a thing (which of
course I could not) the man took a note out
of his wallet, sboved it in my shirt-pocket
and without a word pushed the starter,
gathered the wife and was gone.

"You are a bone-idle creature," I said to
the cat, "and do not deserve to be so happy as
you seem." She eats, she sleeps, she sits in the
sun, she strolls about a bit: that IS all. It
upsets me DOlOg nothing at all IS a mindless
squandering of life.

r am a mere human forty-four. As cats
reckon time she is over sixty, therefore,
relatively speaklDg, much my elder. She is
patient and lOdulgent With my uninstructed
youth. "You amuse me," she replied, "you
really do. That'S why I adopted you and
share my territory with you." And with that
she shut the eye she had half-opened ir.
concession to me, and readied herself for
sleep again.
"1 am honoured and grateful," I said,
proddmg her once more awake, "but this
hardly answers me. Do tell me how you
manage to be so content doing absolutely
nothing."
"When, htUe One" she sigbed sadly, "will
you learn that nothing is so important as
sleep? But I see you will not let me be. Very
well then, lIsten Feline or human, to d()l
something that amounts to anythlOg, we need
to be a deal less limited and unintelll,gent, a
dea1lnore selfless than we actually are. Given
Our very imperfect state, nothlOg is about all
that IS pOSSible to IlS. I acbJeve my nothmg
through InactlVlty, you humans accomplish
yours through a frenzy of self-important,
wonderfully ego-gratlf'YlOg actIVIty.
The
fehne way IS at least a lot rn.ore restful."

August 10th, 1985

I. I. T., MADRAS

The note said:
Dear unknown friend.
We can't thank you enough for
the laugh you gave us the other day.
The lady and me had had a tiff. We
wel,'e not on speaking terms. What
you dld, made us laugb so hard, the
release restored our chumminess.
-An unknown couple.
Come on now, what couple where couple,
what tiff, who milady and other such queries
spring to your acute mind if you are still
reading on. Footnotes are forthcomlOg
Read on .. ,l,Another shll and quiet and warm eveolDg.
I was taking another leg-wag HavlDg finished
to, I was attending to fro. Near the shopping
centre, as usual, I passed (10 that order) Drs
Y Narayan Rao (who nodded), Ashok JJ wala
(waved) and K N Bhat (grinned) I smiled,
namaskaaraed and nodded respectively.
Next I saw coming towards me on the
other side of the road, Mr Navneeth. I
namaskaaraed. He regarded me for a moment
decidmg, placed the heavy bag he was carrymg
on the road and With great state and ceremony
Namaskaaraed Ole. I not to be outdone,
gave him another ~plendld Namaskaara after
first stepping out of my shppers for 1 was also
touched that he even after a moments
hesitatlon had bothered to put the bag down
to Namaskaara me. He, mentally cursing

himself
stepped
kaaraed
to make

for not having thought of this, too
out of hiS Slippers and rena masme. He added a rather stately bow
up.

UnnotIced by us during this whole
sequence, a pleasant young chap and pleasanter WI fe were slo\\Iy specd-breaker-cautlOusly
passmg by m a scooter. They had taken in
al\.
So overcome were they of seeing two
normallookmg (?) chaps like u~ carrYing on
as we w~rc, they were forced to either (a) stop
and l<lugh out aloud. or (b) get entangled
With passmg profs and mIlkmen. They chose
(a) and wisely .
The man shook all over holding on to the
handlebar The wife started shaklDg all over
holdlDg on to the stepne-tyre, only it wasn't
there. She shook all over holding the man,
The chap for a moment (if only a nanosec)
thought of coldly shaking her off However,
he didn't.
We parted after a while. And I, 'the
crass chap I am forgot tbem. They remember
me. Perhaps they have a good reason to.
I believe the man grabbed the nearest
piece of paper and wrote the note in the hope
of findtng me some other day. Perhaps the
wife suggested a fitting note-presentation
manner.

A. CONVERSATION

am instructed by your unending imbecilities.
The surest path to Wisdom is the study of
fools."

M. A. Reddy

The conversation was getting uncomfortable. I sought refuge in sarcasm: ~'What
a hfe of the mind we have here! Doesn't all
thiS intense thJOking tire you? What do you
do for recreatIon, or are you cats above such
merely human needs?" "That was unworthy
of you," she replIed sadly, "It was you who
compelled me out of the silence habitual to
me. So take WIth grace the answers you
pressed for. But I was forgettmg. Wasn't
it one of your own poets, who saId humankind
cannot bear very much reahty? As for
relaxation, I too most certalDly nee.d it.
I get It very simply. I read Astenx.'

•
I was wrathful, and up iu arms, in defence
of the Glory that IS Man I reCited for ber
the awesome lIst of hum~n accomplishment.
"Do you call alI this nothmg'" Royalty was
not Impressed. "It IS a tale told by an Idiot,"
she said, "but even you know the rest of that
saylOg. What have you at the end of It all?
The rat-race from cradle to grave, and an
unnatural and unhealthy life lived out in
a badly ravaged environment. Am I supposed
to be moved to admiratIOn by this?"

1 was in a weak position and knew it.
The thing to do was to shift the battle to new
ground. "You may have an argument there,"
I conceded, "I understand your dlslDchnation
to participate actIVely in getting thmgs done.
There IS, however, the life of study, of
reflection and contemplatIOn. You surely
could give yourself at least to that?" She
looked amused again: "And what, little One,
do you think I have been doing all my life?
To study and grow wise IS what the Divine
Feline up there intended us cats for. the
human species was created only to provide us
With material for growth. I observe you, I
contemplate all the World and hiS Wife, and

"Aha" I pounced, 'So there is something
we mere humans have done, that your
Highness conSiders admirable and wholesomely enJoyable! We are not, then, quite
such trIVIal, negligible creatures as a certain
Personage was making us out to be not too
long ago!" I'd scored a pOint, and intended to
make the most of It. She merely smiled in
utter amusement: "Little One, httle One,
when will you wake up to what everyone
else has been long aware of? Didn't
you even know that GosclOny and Uderzo ar,e
cats 1"

I gathered up suc.h tattered dignity as 1
still had left, and cleared the fIeld. It was
not my day.

