The Second Alumni Day that is to come off on the 29th of July, that is, a
day prior to the Third Convocation, it is hoped, will not be one of those Annual
Tea Parties. A party there will be, and certainly platitudinous exhorta60ns but
apart from the good-will and comraderie generally present in abundance on such
'Occasions, it will be the meeting of minds and the strengthening of bonds between
the Alumni and their Alma Mater that will matter most. Such a happy state will
naturally prevail as long as there is a two way traffic. The Alumni Association on
its part has been doing its best to bring about such an intercourse by acting as
liaison between the 1.1. T., Madras, and the Alumni. The co-operation from both
sides has been splendid and it is only to be hoped that this state of affairs will
always continue.
The Alumni Association has been, in the course of last year, playing a very
satisfactory role in conveying to the Institute the news of its alumni and their
-creditable performance both in our own country and abroad. And through the
News Letter the Association has also been keeping the Alumni posted with the
latest developments in the Institute. The Alumni Association is growing in
membership too. This year a further enrolment of some two hundred members is
assured and with added strength the Alumni Association will be nearly 700 strong.
One can only hope that every single Alumnus will join the Association and share
its benefits.
The Association is happy to acknowledge receipt of numerous letters and
articles from its members. The variety of topics on which the members write is
really staggering and the Alma Mater is justifiably proud that its sons are exercising their minds and knowledge in so many intellectual pursuits. Because this is
a special occasion and because Pradeep is an 'annual,' we are unable to publish
letters and articles of 'news' interest. These, along with current news, will
appear in the next' News Letter'.
We, at the Institute, here, wish all the members a bright future and look
forward to their presence here not only on special occasions like the Alumni day,
but whenever they feel like visiting their Alma Mater.

