S~uJen~

W a§~age

in £ngineeJring

£JucaHonal In§H~uHon§
PROF.

B.

SENGUPTa.

In troduction
The problem of student wastage in engineering educational institutions has lately
engaged the attention of a large circle of educationists and administrators.
Students and their parents feel that, as only the better class of those aspiring for admission succeed in getting into the engineering institutes on account of the keen competition for
entrance, there is a right to expect all of them to complete the course satisfactorily. in the
minimum time, and wastage, if any, should be negligibly small. This view finds support from
many administration and Government agencies who tend to look at the pr0blem of student
wastage from the point of view of the financial outlay on technical education and the consequences of the wastage of human resources in the context of technical manpower shortage. The
Institute of Applied Manpower ReseCirch Working Paper No. 13/1965, on "Student Wastage in
Engineering Educational Institutions" is an elaboration of such a point of view.
On the other hand, educationists feel that the proposition of negligible wastage represents
an ideal situation and is unrealistic under practical conditions. This feeling has its genesis in the
following arguments:
(i) The students admitted to the Engineering Colleges may constitute the 'best' that
is available, but their attainments at the time of their admission may not be
adequate in all cases, in relation to the requirements of the technical education
programme that follows.
(ii) The basic abilities and intellectual qualities of the entrants may be quite good, but
their aptitude and motivation for engineering studies are doubtful in a number of
cases. It is well-known that quite a few students, with basic inclination toward
other courses e.g., Science, get admitted to engineering colleges, because of the
pressure exerted by parents and guardians, and because of the wider opportunities
currently available for scholarships and freeships in the area of technical education
and the more attractive employment potential in engineering.

(iii) Students with good inherent ability may join engineering institutes but eventually
may not apply themselves seriously to the tasks on hand because ot a feeling that
once they are enrolled as engineering students, they will emerge as products with
a high market value even if they pass in the lower divisions and take a longer
period than others in completing the work for their degrees.
The purpose of this note is to examine further the problem of student wastage in
engineering institutions, in general, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, in parti-

