4
In an over-all assessment, the graduation pattern, for the first two batches of students
admitted to this Institute in 1959 and 1960, with an average annual pass percentage of 96 and 99
respectively, is very encouraging. The pattern for subsequent batches will, it is hoped, show
the same trends.

The problem of student wastage
The Institute of Applied Manpower Research, on the basis of data collected from various
institutions, has arrived at the conclusion that there is an alarmingly high percentage of student
wastage in technical institutions, The Report carries a recommendation that even 15% wastage
is excessive as an average, and that the rate should be brought down to 10% by the end of the
Fourth Plan period. To reach this objective, the I.A.M.R. has formulated recommendations fo1'
certain measures, which are summarised in the next section.
The Report does not appear to have taken into account some of the basic and inescapable
reasons, under prevailing conditions, for student wastage, such as insufficient background training at the High School and/or Pre-University level, disparities in standards in various regions of
the country, lack of aptitude on the part of the students, parental pressure exerted on the candidates to enroll in a particular course, and the migration of students to institutions nearer
home and into preferred courses as seats in them become available. The matter requires devoted
and careful scrutiny, before answers can be found for the following questions:
1.

Is the present Wastage Rate to be regarded as abnormally high?

2.

If so, what practical remedial measures will be in order, to minimize this wastage?

In this context, it may be helpful to distinguish between the
categories of stYdents who contribute to the wastage figures:

following three

(a) Those, who drop out of one Institute, to join another which is located nearer their
home-:towns, or in order to effect a change, in preferred career, from Engineering
into Science, Medicine, Commerce, Law and Arts.
(b) Those, who leave within the first two years, having initially joined due to parental
pressure and on finding that the curriculum does not appeal to them or is beyond
their level of attainment, resulting in their failure in the examinations that are
conducted during these years.
(c) Those, who fail in one year or the other during the course, but repeat the concerned
year of study and eventually succeed in completing the course in six or seven years,
instead of the normal, minimum period of five years.
At this point, two types of flwastage-factors" may be recognised, namely, Hpupil-wastage"
or "student-wastage" and Htime-wastage". Students in categories (a) and (b) above contribute
to "Student-wastage" ; and those in category (c) to "Time-wastage".
It is reasonable to suggest that category (a) be not included at all in a computation of
"wastage". In any case, the Institutions offering admissions in the first instance cannot be held
responsible for these drop-outs. Many engineering institutions, I. I. T., Madras among them,
have made it a practice to admit, at the outset, 5 to 10% more than the sanctioned strength,
in order that when a few students leave, for reasons stated under (2), those who continue through
will constitute the desired strength. A few of the students with the right aptitUde and ability
may have left, but only to join some other technical instHute, and, in these cases, there
is no wastage of manpower from the national point of view. The students, who leave the

