5

first institute which offered them admission, do so at a fairly early part of the educational programme, and, in consequence, only a minor order of wastage of time and effort, if any, is
involved.
The wastage that occurs under category (b) is partially attributable to the engineering
institutes. It is capable of minimisation by the adoption of a comprehensive, complex scheme
of entrance tests which may help to weed out those who seek admission only because of parental
pressures and others who do not possess the aptitudes and mental and physical qualities needed
for success in pursuing engineering studies. This problem is very difficult of solution by ordinary
means. Any kind of tests for the assessment of the aptitude of the examinees should pay due
Jegard to their social and economic environmental conditions and take note of the fact that their
concepts are likely to he in a formative stage at the time that their admission is under consideration and it is only with passage of time that the young recruit will develop well-defined
propensities for one type of course or another. Some loss in this category is inevitable. It is
best allowed to occur at an early stage. If all the students admitted are pressed hard to continue,
regardless of whether or not they have the correct attitude to engineering studies, a more significant wastage of effort and time takes place, and some of the final products emerging may be
misfits.
The wastage that occurs under category (c), referred to as "time-wastage", arises out of a
certain number of students, taking more than the normal duration (5 years) to complete the
,course requirements and qualify for the award of the Bachelor's Degree. The :r;esponsibiIity for
this "wastage factor" is solely that of the engineering institutes which run the various courses.
The tabulation given below (Table 2), shows the "Student-Wastage" and "Time-Wastage"
factors, worked out for this Institute, for its first two sets of entrants.
Table

2.

"Student-wastage" and "Time-wastage" factors, at the I. I. T., Madras.
"Student
Wastage"

"Time-Wastage"

Year
of
admissian

In
take

1959

120

19

160/0

101

505

535*

505 -

1960

120

9

80/0

III

555

583**

28 -54<X
555 - . 0

Drop- Fac- No. who completed the
tor
out
course (x)

*535={78x 5)
**583= (89 x 5)

No. of minimum
student years
reqd. (5x)

No. of actual student
yrs. spent (y)

Factor
( y

~ 5x )

30 -6%
0

+ (16 x6) + (7 x 7)
+ (16 x 6) + (6 x 7)

The IItime-wastage" factor has to be looked at in the proper perspective. If it is already
at a satisfac torily low level, any attempt to lower it still further will involve wastage of another
kind, namely "money-wastage" or ((investment-wastage". What level of effort should be exerted
to obviate "time-wastage" and what its ramifications will be in relation to the financial resources
that will have to be provided, are matters calling for deep and thoughtful consideration.
It would be interesting and useful to have some idea of the "student-wastage" and "timewastage" factors, currently obtaining in other advanced countries. Two instances. from West
Germany and the U.S.A., are cited for purposes of comparison.

