7

A Report of the Technical University at Aachen, West Germany, describes, as of 1962,
the graduation pattern in the Mechanical Engineering discipline, in the following terms:
"Of the students who ultimately got through the Diploma-Engineer Examination,
only 400/0 completed the course within 8-10 semesters, 8 semesters being the minimum
prescribed period; 500/0 needed 11-13 semesters; and the remaining 10% of the
students required longer time. Of those registered, only 750/0 finally received the
Diploma. In the case of foreign students, only 50% were eventually successful. In
later years, there has been a slight improvement with regard to both ~he duration of
study and the pass percentages."
Stanford University, in the U.S.A., is in a commanding position with regard to engineering
studies and is a private institution which admits students solely on the basis of merit. The
graduation-flow-pattern (averaged over a few years) at this leading University, is given in the
accompanying diagram. It is noteworthy that 400/0 of those initially enrolled drop-out in the
first two years of the four-years period, to join other COurses and avocations. Only 800/0 graduate
in the minimum prescribed period (4 years). Only 500/0 of the students graduate eventually. It
is highly probable that a similar situation prevails in other top engineering institutes in the
U.S.A. If this is the character of the pattern obtaining in highly industrialised societies where,
thanks to favourable environmental conditions, well~defined aptitudes form, at an early age,
advanced facilities are available for testing and evaluating these aptitudes, and employment
conditions are more equitable among various professions, the drop-out situation and the wastage
occurring in our institutes are by no means such as to cause alarm or despondency.

Recommendations of the I.A.M.R.
The I.A.M.R. Report has made the following recommendations:
1. The curricula now followed in our engineering institutions, are not rational and
have therefore to be revised and improved.
l

2.

The assessment of students' performance has to be done on the basis of the semestersystem and not through a terminal examination.

3. A large number of supplementary tests should be held to facilitate student's
passing.
4.

A system of credits should be introduced.

5.

English should be taught.

6.

Tutorial assistance for various student-groups should be organised prio-r to each
examination.

7. The Principal and the Heads of the various Departments should be charged with
the responsibility of ensuring that an appropriate number of lectures are delivered,
backed by adequate preparation.
8.

No migration of staff should be permitted to take place during an academic session.

9.

Teachers should be carefully selected and trained.

10.

Hostel accommodation shold be provided for the students.

1I.

A certificate, marking the successful completion of the third year of the engineering
course, should be issued to the stUdents, to enable such of these, as desire to do so,
to move from one institution to another.

