8

12. Equivalence should be established between various types of courses, at the first,
second and third year levels, to enable students to transfer from Engineering to
Science and vice-versa.
Some of the recommendations aim at making instruction more effective and fruitful.
Educational institutions will study them with care and will have no hesitation in adopting
them to the extent that they find them practical and economically feasible under their operating
conditions.
One of the recommendations appears to convey the idea that the curricula currently
being followed by the engineering institutions are not rational, and that this situation
contributes to Hstudent-wastage". But this argument IS not clearly explained. Curncula and
programmes of study in engineering have to be kept under continual review and have to be
revitalized and the purpose in doing this is to keep track of modern developments and to help
provide a class of engineers capable of facing, on their own initiative and in their respective
fields of professional activity, the challenges of advancing technology. It is not clear how
this aspect of improvement in the quality of the educational content, which is mainly addressed
to the gifted students, can playa role in eliminating " student-wastage".
The main motivation underlying several of the recommendations is a desire to secure
100% results. ,Action on such recommendations will inevitably convert all the Engineering
Colleges and Institutes into low-grade tutorial and coaching establishments geared to the needs
of average and below-average stUdents, and force these institutes to organise an unending
series of supplementary examinations with the specific objective of passing eventually all the
students who managed to secure admission into one Institute or another. There can be no
surer way to kill initiative and breed complacency.
The recommendation that calls for the establishment of equivalence at various levels
among the different streams of education, viz., Arts, Science, Engineering, Medicine, Law, etc.
is a retrograde one, because by its very nature it will encourage fissiparous and unsettling
tendencies on the part of the students and will upset the planning and orderly workin g of all
the concerned educational institutes. It runs counter to the concept of an integrated approach
in the learning of and preparation for work in a particular discipline. The equivalence
principle, if given effect to will diversify and dilute the curricula of the early years in all
courses of study, to such an extent that the objective of laying a proper foundation for the
specialisation that follows in one branch of study or the other will be rendered completely
null and void.
In general, it may be stated that the recommendations collectively sugg est a course of
action that will prove to be academically unsound and unacceptable from the point of view of
the Institutes that impart technical education.

Conclusion
The picture provided by fluid flow through a pipe forms an apt analogy for the present
discussion. To achieve a reduction in
(a) material wastage, due to leakage taking place at cracks and joints, and
(b) time wastage due to different fluid velocities at different layers,
one has to use better pipes and joints, and make the flow turbulent by exerting greater pumping
energy. These steps require a larger capital outlay and increased running expenditure and

