9
thereby invoke wastage" of a third kind, viz.,
money wastage". An economic design
will be one that makes a compromise between two conflicting requirements-reduction of wastage
and rise in operating cost. In the case of student-flow, wastage, reckoned in terms of students
lost on the way and time lost on the way, may be sought to be reduced by employing a larger
number of qualified teachers, by intensifying tutorial assistance and by adopting a realistic
examination and assessment scheme for promotions. However, the high cost involved in taking
the wastage level to a lower depth than now is a matter for cautious consideration.
CI

Ct

It may be pointed out that the strikingly low percentages of "student-wastage" and
time-wastage" obtaining at the LLT., Madras-as well as the other LLTs.-are the direct
results of their staffing patterns and their instructional schemes of which the outstanding
characteristics are: individual attention bestowed on the students, intensive laboratory
practice and rational methods of assessing, on a continual, almost daily, basis, the progress of
the individual student, and the laying down of norms for the successful completion of the
various sujects of study incorporated in the curriculum. These steps, salutary by themselves,
have led to an increase in the per capita cost of the training of undergraduate students at the
I.LTs. (Rs. 2100 is the approximate figure for I.I.T., Madras) vis-a-vis other institutions in
respect of which the cost may be somewhat lower (Rs. 1,700 or so) but the "wastage" factors
are much higher (45%). The enhanced level of expenditure at this Institute seems worthwhile
and would appear to be repaid amply by the reduction that it has brought about in the
combined" wastage figure from the 45% or so, of other institutions, to its own 150/0 and
below.

H

II

As long as the primary aim of engineering education is to train young men in the theory
and practice of the engineering profession and to inculcate in them, the confidence and
capacity to carry out their professional responsibilities in a competent manner, the question of
"wastage
should play a subordinate role and should not lead to a tinkering with the
fundamentals of the educational programme.
II

In conclusion, it may be pointed out that a 100% elimination of "student-Wastage" and
" time-wastage" is possible only if one is prepared to do away with an organised form of
education and training and to abolish tests and examinations that help to estimate the extent
to which the pupils absorb and assimilate the knowledge presented to them by their teachers.
A lOOCYo transmission-efficiency on the part of the teachers and a 100CYo reception-efficiency on
the part of the students are unattainable ideals. The adoption of short-circuits, improvisations and temporary expedients in education will lead to a false and pretentious idea of
progress, abnormal costs and a fall in the true standards. All that can be done is to improve
teaching and training methods, consistent with the calibre of the students that qualify for
admission and the financial resources made available for the purpose of turning them into useful
products. The singular objective of reducing" wastage" to negligible proportions-for the
mere sake of freduction' by means that are artificial and of doubtful academic merit-will be a
serious step directed against the cause of higher technical education in the country, because it
will result in producing young men who will possess an engineering degree but not the
competence to carry out the tasks and discharge the responsibilities that await them in the
various engineering fields. This would be "wastage", on a big scale, of the nation's potential
resources.

