Clboosing Ingineering as a

Career To=Jay
BHAGABAN DAS*

It is undoubtedly true that career planning is of the greatest importance to-day. This
being the arbitrator of onels future destiny, careful thought and consideration must be exercised
in properly orienting the career at the beginning. This would result in the reduction of losses in
time, money and human talents. Some time ago, engineering profession was considered to be
a matter of honour, prestige and high social status, but engineering activities are continually
changing in nature and scope. Hence, one should clearly understand what he wants out of
life-material success, or opportunity for service, security, or freedom of action, opportunity
for leadership,' or freedom from responsibility, social prestige, or personal privacy, creative
satisfaction or freedom from pressure.
Deciding upon this if'One takes up engineering as a career he should visualise the great
task he has to implement in order that he may attain the goals of his life.
As engineering is the professional act of applying science to the efficient conversion of
natural resources to the benefit of man, this has to be translated into action in reality. Then
only can the charm of this noble career be realized.
But unfortunately engineers in our country are not so well placed by and large. They
are placed in posts where lesser skilled people could discharge the duties with ease. Slight
in trospection into the matter would reveal the tremendous waste of labour and human talents,
by not properly fitting the person to the job. The intrinsic worth of education that an
engineer receives is really great. So naturally greater returns should be expected of an
engineer. It may be that in advanced countries, if engineers do their normal duty, it may be a
satisfactory return, but in a country like ours something more is to be expected if it is to
develop materially and industrially thereby raising the standard of living of the masses.
It is 1!ot difficult to pin point where exactly the mistakes lie in the present occurrings in
our country, but taking things as they are, an engineering student should realise that it is the
day of the survival of the fittest and engineering, at present, is more of a challenging nature,
rather than an easy passage. There is so much to learn and so little time that many hours of
concentrated and efficient study are required. It is not only difficult, but it is also so
Almost right" Or correct except for the decimal point" is not acceptable.
exacting.
II

II

The engineer is engaged in creative, productive and constructive work, whereas the
doctors' patients are usually ill and the lawyers' clients are in trouble, the engineer is primarily
concerned with healthy growing and productive activities. Then why can't better performance
be exhibited by an engineer?
*( 1960-66 B. Tech. Civil Engineering)

