11

Every successful engineer would know the joy of creation, creation of a new concept,
device, process, or procedure out of his own know1edge, thought and experience.
Success in engineering usually requires interest, aptitude and drive; however a deficiency
in one characteristic can be compensated for by extra strength in the other two.
If students of engineering guide themselves along these lines and gain technical
knowledge, engineering is a wonderful field full of a host of opportunities for exciting, satisfying
work and a life time career.

VINOD KUMAR BATRA*

"Boy, what great fun it is going to be when I have that diploma in my hand. I am
going to show the world what I can do, just give me a chance. Life now on is going to be what
they call a bed of roses, believe me. No more slogging with those boiler designs and Kirchoff's
laws. I am going to design ...... I have an idea you see. I could patent it, make all the money
in the world and live a quiet, of course, a comfortable life."
Personally speaking, I don't think the dream started at such a late stage. It was one of
those fine sundays after Christmas when life seems to be making a smooth role. I was working
on my "aeroplane kit" --one of those things that the rich aunts give to their nephews to play with.
I wonder if it was intuitive or more of a fashion to see the tiny tots play with such gadgets. I
don't think I even knew how to open the box properly but here I was, surrounded all around
with bits and pieces of complicated machinery. Didn't even have an idea where it was all going
to end. That was when my dad walked into the room. A noble old soul! He had the surprised
look as if he had found a gold mine.
"Sonny, you are going to be a great engineer. I didn't know that you liked tools so
much". Bless my poor soul, I was still figuring out whether the fans would go inside or
outside the fuselage and here I had the degree already confirmed.
"Engineers," was too difficult a word to say and so the next time I had my birthday party,
I passed the word down that I was going to be a motor mechanic. I guess that was the only
profession I knew. "Why not an engineer or scientist, son? Why a mechanic?" You see,
John, the neighbour's son, his dad is a mechanic and he can drive everything. Yesterday he
was sitting on that small machine which cut his grass faster than our mower.
*(1960-65 B. Tech. Electrical Engineering L.C., M.S.)

