12

"Dad, why don't we have one of those things?"
"You see, my dear boy, our lawn isn't as big as John's and we like doing a hit of
exercise." "Mom, don't you think that if we had a bigger lawn, Dad would get a bit more
experience?" Quite a legitimate point, but we never happend to acquire one of those strange
looking devices and the crave for being a mechanic started dying down.
Incidentally, I was the eldest son in the family, and quite handy at doing men's jobs. I
could fix a leaky tap, mainly because I knew where the main valve was, hang a picture, I knew
all the spots where a natl could go, mostly because I used to play ball against the walls, and
knew the weak spots, and odd jobs like fixing the stove or fridge by kicking them. Modestly
speaking, I had the engineer's temperament.
Then came the end of school and a big decision to make. The principal suggested that I
would make a good public speaker, may be he had Hyde Park in mind. I still wonder how he
ever thought of it but my dad, an obstinate old man, had seen me at work that day. No, sir,
his son would make a great engineer.
ely au don't know my son: he has been practically running the household.
needed a mechanic for the past five years".

We haven't

Surely not because things used to get into such a mess that a new one would be better
than a repaired one. Remember that night when I opened the back of our radio, an antique. I
was always afraid playing with this music box but curiosity gets the best of you sometimes, and
even the best dealer in town didn't have the slightest idea how to get the sound back into the
system. The project was called off and my dad who gave in for experience at any time laughed
if off by saying "Son, you learn by your mistakes." Surely I did not want to make another
mistake by joining the technical school but as a young man I had no say in the matter. Left to
me I would have been a great business man but the intricacies of Machine Design, Superhetrodyne
receivers, the modulation at carrier frequencies, the acoustics of recording rooms and the Logic of .
Boolean Algebra had me down for all these years. There was not a moment to lift my head and
question" my decisions. To my surprise I showed reasonable progress except for the supplementaries which brought my academic year every time to full twelve months and 365 days.
Somehow the end seemed in sight and the realization of a dream which was partly
SUbjective. The results were in the paper. I had a fruitful ending, a first class in my Bachelor's
degree. Incidentally, I had majored in Electronics mainly because the electrons in orbits always
intrigued me and somehow still do.
lt was time for every body, my parents, teachers, brothers, sisters, to see my knowledge
at work. That was a big day when I was called for the interview. Dressed in my graduation
suit, adjusting the tie knot every ten yards I entered the committee room. It gave me shivers
but the principal was after all allright, I impressed them with my answers. I think they were
relevant enough. Then came the hundred dollar question, a bombshell, Any experience?"
"No, sir, I just graduated this year, as a matter of fact this month."
(I

They had their eyebrows up, and quickly held a conference. "Well, you see youngman,
we are looking for a man who has worked in this field for a couple of years. We have a job for
apprenticeship but I think we would wait till we are through with the rest of the carididates.
It went on and on from one firm to another, one city to another. Hope sustains life but not the
shine of my suit.
This was in that coffee house where the Beatniks and the Beatles meet. I bumped into
an old pal of mine. "Well J Well! how are you engineer sahib? Don't see you around these

