13
days. Must be loaded with dough. Why should you look on people like us any more? Let me
buy you a cup of coffee, at least you might then appoint me as your secretary." I felt like
wringing his neck and see him gaping for breath but sometimes a brilliant man is born amongst
ruins and during our conversation he kidded me into going for another degree, I guess, he
considered us some kind of nuts. If the present degree couldn't fetch me a decent job, I had
my doubts if another one would help and in any case I would still be without any experience.
But why waste time in coffee house and taverns? With my marks I could be easily considered
for graduate study. Things soon started shaping up and I took off for Canada for another
degree, much to the amazement of my parents, who had another dream of their own.
And here I am friends, still trying to figure out why two and two make four.
N.B. While I was preparing the text for this, I happened to run into another definition of an
Engineer which I produce here for my Engineer friends.

An Engineer
An Engineer is one who passes as an exacting expert on the strength of being able to
turn out, with prolific and amazing fortitude, strings of incomprehensible formulae calculated
with micrometric precision from extremely vague assumptions based upon debatable figures
obtained from inconclusive tests and quite incomplete experiments carried out with the instruments of problematic accuracy and by persons of rathu dubious mentality, with the particular
anticipation of disconcerting and annoying a group of hopelessly chimerical fanatics altogether
too frequently described as the corporate staff.

DR. T.

GOPICHAND*

Teaching and learning are mainly the problems of communication between two persons,
the teacher and the taught. Wherever human behaviour is involved, it is necessary to define
the objectives and ideal conditions, then only, any discussion is meaningful. Besides definitions
and discussions, a matter of equal importance is how any method works in a real situation and
what corrective action is necessary to attain the objectives. The latter could only be arrived at
by a critical assessment of behaviour of a given real system. However good a teaching method
may be, a given combination of a teacher and student may not be benefited by it. Whatever
may be the method of teaching employed, a given combination of teacher and student may
learn. This is, however, an extreme condition, where the will of uncompromising individuals
dominates and surpasses every material tenet. This essay is devoted to laying down certain
ideal conditions and discussing a few suggestions for practice.
*(Assistant Professor, Dept. of Chemical Engineering)

