14

Teaching is an art. Learning is the fulfilment of an innate desire to know. For a perfect
result of teaching and learning, the two persons-the teacher and the taught-should be personally aware of their responsibilities and should have faith in their ability to achieve their aims.
A teaching method can only provide a stimulus to attain a good result but does not guarantee it.
A teacher is not a text-book. He is not just a widely read person. He is not a machine
to give correct answers to set questions. This negative way of starting a definition is deliberately chosen to eliminate some popular misconceptions of a good teacher. A teacher should be
an individualist. He should have his own style of teaching. George Bernard Shaw once stated,
that if a person has something to say (his own), he sets his own style. So a teaching method~
if the above definitions of teacher and teaching are accepted, is a property of a teacher-nay, it
is at the core of all creative work of a teacher.

The above set of definitions is stated to recognise certain limitations to the extent to
which a desired result can be achieved, for a prescribed teaching method. In so far they also
help to arrive at corrective actions for any prescribed scheme.
I

Before any suggestions are made to deal with real situations it is necessary to distinguish
between teaching basic principles of a subject to a large number of students, for example. in
undergraduate teaching and teaching at graduate level, where the teacher-to-student ratio is
high.
I t is necessary to recognise that certain pre-requisites and accepted objectives to be attained
are to be set forth before recommending a teaching method. Sa, in what follows, some useful
teaching methods for undergraduate and graduate studies are presented.

Undergraduate Teaching
The principal objectives can be stated as to teach the most basic principles of the subject
and to inculcate into the mind of the students to make it a habit to think and to make the
subject a part and parcel of his mental outfit. There are two basic ingredients in the above
objective,'i.e., to inspire a student to love his subject and to provide him with the most basic
principles. To inspire a student is not necessary, if the student comes to learn and with a love
towards the subject. However, this is the exception rather than the rule in our country. Both
the above mentioned objectives are challenging problems to a teacher.
The followjng practice may.be helpful to achieve the above objectives : 1.

The seniormost member of the department should organise and teach the first
course in any subject.

2.

Demonstration lectures in pure sciences are very helpful in inspiring students to
learn.

3.

Intensive viva-voce in practical classes. A lot of experience is necessary, if the
viva has to be of any teaching value. A questioning method will teach a student
only if the questions are put to provoke or prod a person to think and not if they
are of a vindictive nature.
It takes a very, very long time to teach students by ridiculing them or by teasing
them about what they do not know.

4.

A wen organised tutorial system where most of the talking is to be done by students
to present their doubts.

