15
5.

Finally, a teacher must be made available for every two or three students for
bringing up their problems or doubts once a week. This should be done purely on
humanitarian grounds and can be outside the college hours.

There are two major prerequisites for the teaching methods proposed above. Firstly,
courses of a descriptive nature are to be avoided. It is unjust to ask a teacher and a student to
do a painstaking job when a course is of purely descriptive nature and as such mayor may not
require a teacher. For all such courses, it is more beneficial and proper to educate a student by
1.

providing a museum of articles or equipment or anything which is described in the
course,

2.

taking advantage of audio-visual educational methods like motion pictures and
slides,

3.

taking students for a tour.

The second prerequisite is that a good supply of cheap text-books should be available. It
would be possible for the teacher, then, to devote his lecture to explain the fundamentals.

Graduate Teaching
While the teaching at undergraduate level is to initiate a student, at the graduate level
the emphasis should be on making him a mature individual. He should be taught to tackle
problems of more and more difficult nature and as the problems become more difficult, the teacher
slowly fades out into the background and will be of help, when it is absolutely necessary.
If such is the objective, the following teaching methods may be helpful:
1.

The lectures should be such as to promote discussion. If students in graduate
classes do not ask logical questions, the classes are bound to be un-educative.

2.

To allot topics on recent advances and initiate study and discussion in the class
room.

3.

Work involving experimentation should initiate the individual into the art of
getting useful information and logical interpretation.

4.

To allot project work where a student should develop independent ability to
organise himself to present a problem and to undertake investigation or in short to
develop the thinking faculty to its fullest extent.

There is one prerequisite for the above methods. They are useful if the programme of
study is designed to be intensive in nature rather than extensive. Studies of intensive nature
only are in conformity with the objectives stated (in the first para of this sub-section). To try
to cram a little of every conceivable subject at the graduate level would be very harmful to a
group of intelligent students.
It is very desirable to note at this juncture, that if graduate studies are to be exciting for
the students and teachers, the teacher should have the courage to learn from the students, whenever the situation demands. Everyone, whether he be a student or teacher, should be confident
of what he knows and should avoid at all costs to be an introvert trying to worry about what he
does not know. Only the supreme authority of a logical argument need be respected.

