16

Summary
An attempt is made to lay down certain ideal conditions and objectives for teaching in
general. Certain teaching methods are recommended to fulfill specific objectives for graduate and
undergraduate studies against a given background of prerequisites.
Finally in concluding this essay, it is but necessary to mention the status of examination in
the above scheme. It is only permitted as a tool for the teacher to assess how much of what
he has taught is assimilated by the student. Any other aspect of a given examination system
falls outside the scope of this essay.

Research WoJtiker

an

Asse~

OJr
K.

S.

a

Liatih~y?

KRISHNAMURTHY*

In spite of Ramans, Krishnans, Bhabhas and Ramanujams, the present conditions
prevalent in our country will confuse the common man. These are cries for better prospects
from the ~cientists and Engineers on the one hand; at the same time one reads about the decision
of the 'Pool' to evict the (foreign returned/s who have chosen to follow the notorious (sons-in-law'
of olden days in being reluctant to refuse the hospitality extended to them.
My intention is to discuss the worth of a Researcher, irrespective of whether he has
enlarged(!) his information in an "advanced" country or has been struggling for recognition in
his own motherland.

Let me answer the question appearing in the title which is: 1. definitely an asset, 2. could
be a liability.
On analysis of the statistics taken by the "advanced" countries, Research and Development have paid rich dividends in the long run. It is one of those departments where one cannot
see immediate results. It takes ten months for a child to come out of the womb. The amount
spent on Research in the ((advanced" countries has been on the increase every year.
1 am writing from my own experience as a Development Engineer for a year. I hope it
will prove of help to my colleagues and friends who choose to woo a career of Research. It is
not my intention to give advice or suggestions to the authorities on how to encourage research
in our country. Let me skip over to the second part of my question that is "How a Researcher
could be a liability and how best to avoid becoming one."
*(1961-'65 B. Tech. Electrical Engineering L.C.)

