17

The first and foremost question one should ask himself before choosing a particular field
of research is "Does my country need research in this field"? and secondly, "Will there be facilities
for continued research?" These questions are almost always coupled with the interest and
fascination one has for a particular discipline in which he seeks a research career. Once a
decision is made, I do not see any reason in blaming others for lack of facilities. If one is really
interested in his subject of study, he can find a country that has facilities for work. A developing
country is like a child which can consume only as much as its belly can ho ld. One should also
bear in mind that only very rarely does one come across a job which is after his heart as well as
paying.
Having taken up a job one should realise that the problems do not end the reo It is only
the beginning. One should always be on the look out for things of interest in order to widen
the horizon of his knowledge, be constantly in touch with the latest developments in his field of
study. One should be willing to learn from others.
Never underestimate any person-he might possess some information you need. Be frank
in your discussions with others. It always helps to admit what you don't know, rather than to
pretend knowledge.
Last, but not least, is the developing of one's ability to adapt whatever one has gathered
to the conditions prevalent in one's own country.
To sum up, the successful researcher, as I see him, is industrious, alert, inquisitive
and frank, apart from being intelligent. He will never be a liability to his country.

PRADEEP MALLICK*

Thoughts of going abroad begin to take shape in the final year ot one's Universityeducation and become, for some, an obsession by the time they are through it. This was definitely
true of my class-mates and unless someone has been sending home rather dark and dismal descriptions of higher education abroad-I am sure the same trend continues. Such obsessions are
indeed magnificent, for, the experience-and the technical aspect is only part of it I-and
knowledge to be gained abroad are absolute assets and perhaps the oft-quoted "widening of
one's outlook" jazz is not entirely a myth.
This by no means applies to all, but, by and large, at or about the time of our graduation, we in India lack a practical knowledge of engineering problems. I could even go a step
*(1960-'65 B. Tech. Electrical Engineering H.C.)

