18

further and say that we lack the basic understanding of the fundamental concepts on which
engineering is based. Whereas, one should endeavour to understand the fundamental concepts
and allow advanced learning to follow on its own, based on that understanding, we, on the
contrary, learn-nay, study-refrigeration with only a vague notion of the meaning of enthalpy.
Soon after the Convocation, as if by sudden transition, we find we are engineers and wonder
whether we should now be capable of solving all problems that pertain, even if only remotely, to
engineering. Uncertainty and a lack of confidence account for our attempts to shy away from
simple day-to-day engineering problems. The word 'engineer" becomes frightful. But first
what is an engineer? Is he the business-suited executive who clinches deals over business-lunches?
Is he the impatient, eager enthusiast who was responsible for the turbo-jet? Or, is he the one
who, in overalls, helps build power-stations? Perhaps, all three are engineers, each in his own
light; basically, as one American put it, "an engineer is one who can do with one dollar what
any blundering fool can do after a fashion with two", And this comes with experience. Becoming
an engineer is no transition; it is a maturing process, an evolution. It is my contention,
however, that the earlier one is "broken in" the better grasp one has of the practical aspect of
engineering, and this definitely results in a far greater interest in and appreciation of the
subjects taught at college.
We have, for so long now, been crying out for the dire need for a closer and more intimate
relationship between technical institutions and industry. Perhaps the appreciation of the idea
itself takes considerable time to mature, and then again its execution must of necessity take
10nger, in view of the obvious expense involved in evolving schemes for training. I do, however,
sincerely hope that this marriage between institution and industry is arranged speedily, so that
we in India have capable en gineers with a greater insight into what makes things tic, an inborn
inquisitiveness rather than indifference, curiosity rather than nonchalance. This applies to all,
be they men in research, development or applications. Such of those who do intend becoming
'applications engineers' have got to know about the practical on-site problems of installation and
commissioning as well as about operation in addition to some of the raw design features taught
in the class room.
It must not be implied from what I have said, that engineers in this country are to be
regarded as demi-gods; nor are they basically superior. Quite on the contrary, our budding
engineers often exhibit a genius that matches that of any other engineer anywhere, and postgraduate students from home rarely fail to shine in Universities abroad. Engineers here,
however, have the great advantage of having received industrial training, even when still studying. During their hOlidays, University students often take up some sort of training with firms.
Although the primary reason for this might be monetary rather than an absolute thirst for
know 1edg~, such training never fails to do some good. The degree of benefit is undoubtedly
greater for foreigners, who come for a specific purpose and have, therefore, only a short time to
learn so much.

Training in this country may take one of a multitude of forms, but the feature they all
have in common is the time spent on the shop-fioor, where the apprentices are encouraged to
luse their hands'. But whether they do so ornot, they absorb (even, perhaps, Oblivious of the
osmosis) a lot of the manufacturing problems encountered and their subsequent solution. The
reasons for delays in promised~delivery dates, which somehow seem so inevitable and which one
tends to accept as a foregone conclusion. are now understood. Thus, consciously or unconsciously,
one widens one's knowledge; one learns. Only, one cannot, at the end of such a training, tick
off certain items as having acquired full knowledge in them; only when put to test can one
gauge the depth and degree of absorption.

