19

One might wonder, after all this, at the need to go abroad to absorb practices on a foreign
shop-floor, and whether one might not absorb as much on shop-floors in the industries in one's
own home. Indeed! The technical knowledge that one might gain abroad might not be far
greater than that proferred at home, but since when has 'learning' and 'experience' been confined
to technical knowledge alone? The technical knowledge that a post-graduate apprentice acquires
abroad is small in comparison to the overall knowledge he gains. This is nothing to feel sorry
about; for success does not depend solely on one's ability to read Mother's Charts; it also depends
to a large extent on gaining experience. And mere living abroad is an experience in itself. You
now look back and see' for the first time, the things which, at home, you had taken for granted,
things which had been around you all these years, but which somehow appear diffe;ent now that
they are viewed in a different light, in a different perspective. You begin to realise that poverty,
squalor, hunger, disease and illiteracy are not our birthrights, that they must go. And this
awareneess, this awakening too are important, for they are education in themselves.
t

On

"W~~"
hy. anJ
Dr. T

GOPI

"IIow- ~".

CHAND*

I have promised a good friend of mine, in the Alumn i Association, to write an article for
the annual number. When I resolved, I should snatch a few moments of respite, sit down and
write something, the first question I faced was, "Why should I write an Essay?" I know I
cannot answer this question, precisely, I shrugged my shoulders and asked the next logical
question, ttHow should I write it ?". Had I not chosen this path I know the plethora of other
questions, which the former querry "Why should I write an essay?" will lead to. For instance,
"Do I have a topic to write about ?"; "Can I exploit the indulgence of my friends to patiently
read about whatever I feel I have suffered and learnt ?" etc.
It occurred to me that it might be worth while to put in the form of an essay some of my
experiences with these twin questions "Why?" and "How?".
I had asked one of my friends in college days, who later was dabbling in novels and
poetry as a pastime, HWhy should you write novels or poetry?". This gentleman being a very
sensitive person, and who feels that art should either trigger or sustain the values of what can be
called civilized existence for homosapiens, promptly answered that when certain actions of human
beings make him suffer, he feels he should tell others: depict the depth of human interactions
in society. I then asked him "Why write stories with fictitious names and situations? Why not
*(Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering)

