20

straight away say what you want to say in plain language ?". I could see the pain on his face.
because every artist loves his creative instinct more than the despicable and ever elusive "truth",
Fortunately or otherwise, I never had to ask myself "How should I write a novel ?H. However,
I should admit that I am sometimes moved during my daily life, to write poetry occasionally
without caring for "truthu.
T he twin questions "Why?" and "How?" are almost unavoidable. If a man does anything
automatically, like a machine, of course, these questions never arise. For instance, if you go to
a railway station and stand in a queue, you don't ask yourself any questions. You simply do
what others do. But for an action about which a man has to think, he faces these questions
invariably.
A funny feature of these twin questions is that the order in which one faces them decides
the nature of what he is going to do. To further elaborate, if he starts with asking "Why should I
do it?", his action is going to be positive. By positive, I mean, his actions are going to be useful
to him and if it pertains to a larger domain, they are going to be beneficial to his society.
On the other hand, if he asks "How should I do it?" and gets bogged down in methodology and comes up with "Why should I do it ?", he is led to either inaction or action of a negative
type. By negative type, I mean, actions which are not going to be useful either to him or to others
and even tually lead to frustration of the individual.
I might extend this latter hypothesis of "order in which the twin questions are invoked"
to our present national situation and the dilemma faced by "intellectuals"-(the term intellectuals
being used ina colloquial sense}. There is a good number of patriotic, intelligent, normal,
healthy pers ons in our country, but the progress that is being achieved in any aspect of our
society is really small. It is my personal feeling that most of them conscientiously ask the question How should I be useful to my country?". The answers they try to formulate are so
disordered that more often, they feel compelled to ask "Why should I be a lone figure in trying to
be useful to my country?". This situtation is not new to our country. Till Gandhiji vitalised
and toned up the national feelings "to help ourselves to improve our lot", all good natured souls
in the first half of twentieth century in our country were in the same dilemma.
It

I, for one, feel optimistic that this trend of questioning will be reversed and that our
country will progress.
I might close this short glimpse at these twin questions with a poem by Kipling:
" I keep six honest serving-men;
(They taught me all I knew)
Their names are WHAT and WHY and
WHEN and HOW and WHERE and WHO. "

