G. N.

SHARMA*

Discarding the topic "student life in the U.S.A.", though it may be more appropriate
I wish to write about the most gigantic problem that our country faces: the population
explosion. The following estimate indicates the magnitude of the problem. To~day there are
2'2 billion people in the under-developed nations, and one billion in the developed nations.
At the present rate of growth, it is estimated that by 2,000 A.D. (which is not far off) there
will be roughly 5'0 billions in the (present) under-developed nations and only 1'5 billions in the
developed ones. The population of India, at the present rate, would exceed one billion by
2000 A.D.r It should be noted that the developed countries are conscious of the problem, several
have solved it, and some, with valid reasons, think it is not urgent enough for them to take
additional measures towards population control. Unfortunately, it is the backward countries
that are going to be hard hit by the population explosion in the next 20 years. My objective
in writing this article is to indicate how wise and fruitful it would be if the various political,
social groups and the educational insititutions in our country took a rational view of the problem
and showed interest in solving it; to show that a basic change is needed in our society; and to
make it clear that the question of whether we progress, or plunge into a chaotic qeterioration of
our economy, is critically dependent on how well we subdue the population growth in the next
20 or 30 years.
First, I wish to present the views of some of the developed nations on birth control and
related topics, as revealed in their reports to the U.N.
Sweden is one of tho se countries where people have been mindful of birth control for a
long time. There, it seems, the family planning ideas found their way to the people through
the popular educational organisations and through the leaders of the labour movement, which
had its break-through at the turn of the century. As a result of the birth control measures
adopted by her people, Sweden reports, not only has the population levelled off, but also the
appreciable reductian in the number of large families has made it necessary to close down small
agricultural units and hence has made rationalisation of agriculture easier. (The converse: As
discussed later in this article, the effect of rationalisation of agriculture on family planning by
the villagers can be very significant). Excellent health services are provided and there is
legalised abortion.
Denmark, Yugoslavia, Austria, France and Canada have rates of growth of popUlation of
less th an I % and so do not see any population problem, in the near future. Italy considers
that high cost of living and the financial and psychological cost of bringing up children is
sufficient obstacle to unchecked procreation. The U.S.A., the richest country, has a high rate
of growth of population, almost comparable to that of under-developed nations. However, the
(1960-'64 B. Tech.

Electrical Engineering L.C., M.S).

