22
U.S. does not see any need for population control in the near future, for obvious
Eventually, however, they too will have to face the problem.

reasons~

The U.S.S.R. faced population problems in the early years of communism, but the
enormous economic growth that followed did not necessitate population control: in the period
1913 to 1963, the population increased by 41 % but the national income increased by 2700%,
thus increasing the income per head by 1900% ' Perhaps because of the fantastic success the
Soviets scored on the economic front, they contend that the socio-economic problems should not
be attempted by population control, but by changes in the social structure, i.e., by socialist
reforms. The Soviet view, which implies that all socialist countries should not be confronted
with severe population problems, stands to question: (Red) China, for examle, has been
struggling under the enormous pressure of a rapidly growing population and it is only recently
that they have taken concrete steps to reduce the pJpulation grow th, by birth control
techniques.
From the above, it is clear that as tar as the pJp'.llation problem is concerned, the
developed nations have every reason to take it easy over the next few de~ades. The backward
countries in South America and Asia will have to move fast to solve the prob lem. (The African
nations do not have any popUlation problems). India and China, because of their large populations, can expect to be worst hit by the popUlation explosion", which is already under way,
though few recognise it. The problem is ours and the burden of solving it rests squarely on
our shoulders. - We have to investigate the socio-economic conditions and changes (apart from
education and medical facilities) that will lead to, and result from, a wide-spread use of birth
control measures and family planning.
Ii

At this point, I should explain the socio-economic conditions that I have been referring to~
and I will do so with an example. Let us consider the economic conditions of the farmer. The
farmer wants to have at least two sons, to help him on his sm'lll farmland, and to support him
when he reaches .old age. In the process of getting two sons, he ends up with a family of
atleast four or five children. Such a behaviour on the part of the farmer is not surprising~
(an average of two children per family would ensure a sufficien tly low popUlation growth) and
is quite reasonable. (This important view was expressed and substantiated with facts in the
report from Pakistan, where the problem is similar to ours.) Even if we educate the farmer in
the methods of birth control, and provide adequate medical facilities, he would be forced by the
economic conditions mentioned above to have a large family. This would be true not only of
the farmer but also of all those people who do not have a
security" or a means of
subsistence to fall back on when they reach old age. In our country, most of the workers"
and all the poor people, that constitute the bulk of the p:)pula tion, fall into this category.
Hence, it see~s to me that apart from educating the mlsses about birth control and providing
the required medical facilities, we should work out a scheme by which practically everyone~
including the workers and the farmers, is assured of certain amoun t of security (by way of
pension, etc.) when he reaches old age. Though this may seem costly at first sight, it would be
profitable in view of the reduction in population it would lead to and the allied national welfare.
Besides, there is a certain amount of social justice involved. In our country, unfortunately,
the social sccurity of a person is often closely linked to his own family. We should change our
social structure in such a way that a person's social security is independent of his family
structure. In other words, the individual, and not the family, should be unit of the society.
H

For example, collective farming could enable the farmer to work in a big farm and draw
pension from the same farm when he reaches old age. This would remove his necessity to have

