23

sons. If we pause for a moment and think there are scores of such conditions in our society
that need attention. All these necessitate a change in our way of life. We should not hesitate
to make these changes if these are necessary for effective use of family planning, since the
aIterna tive is disaster.
Whatever steps we take to effectively reduce the population growth, we have to do so as
early as possible, within the next few years. The consequences of an uncontrolled population
growth or an insufficiently controlled population level or delayed action are very clear:
(i)

repeated food shortages even under normal natural conditions, which will
reach a stage when even the massive U.S. food aid will not help. in fact, the
U.S. will have just enough people in the U.S. itself to worry about;

(ii) we will find it impossible to provide the basic living conditions for the enormous
popula tion. The result will be unrest which may lead to violent revolution and
(iii) when the era of executing industrial plans with foreign aid is over we will find it
more difficult to match the economic growth with the population growth and as a
result the "progress", which has always been eluding us, will never become
a reality.
(I am not pessimistic in making the above observations. Think of the situation just twenty
, years from now when the population of our country will be 50% more than what it is to-day,
at the present rate of 2'2% a year, and 2,000 A.D. when it will be double what it is today!)
Considering the magnitUde and the urgency of the problem, it is distressing to note that
the educational organisations and the various political and social groups in our country seldom
discuss the problem and suggest the means to a quick and effective solution. It is foolish to
expect the government to make the entire effort. Certainly, a successful family planning
programme, which avoids a possible 50 to 100% growth in the population in the next 20 to 30
years is as valuable as several big five year plans put together. Here is the secret of a possible
success of all our development plans! It is needless to say that this needs as much attention as
our five year plans are getting at the hands of economists and engineers!
The educational aspect of the family planning scheme and the medical aspect of it are
rather well defined and our objective is to make them used as extensively as possible. I do not
propose to elaborate on these and my objective has only been to bring out some hidden, but
very significant, sociological aspects of the problem. There are several other facets of the
problem which deserve attention. It would be interesting, for example, to investigate the
possible effectiveness of different ways of enforcing family planning. One simple but effective
way to curb population growth is to encourage late marriages. (They are trying this, I believe,
in mainland China).
At first sight, the population problem appeared to me as a typical control problem; we
have the various techniques of birth control and other popUlation control measures including
many legal sanctions which constitute the variables at our disposal to control the popUlation
level; and our objective would be to select that combination of these variables which would,
over a reasonable period of time, maximise some "performance index H of the society. But I
was told by t he demographers that the system (the society) is very difficult to identify (i.e., it is
difficult to predict its response reasonably well) and also it may vary with time in an
unpredictable way. Besides, for our country, we do not need any optimist at ion theory to tell
us what to do; we simply have to apply brakes on the popUlation growth as quickly and
effectively as possible.

