24
If I have succeeded in getting the brilliant minds of the I.I.T.ians to think about this
very important problem, one should not mind the length of this article. Thinking about our
population problem, one cannot help feeling very sad, even desperate, but the truth is often
very ugly!

I am extremely thankful for the help Mr. David Radel of the Ford Foundations Population Programme gave me in acquiring some valuable information.

R.

NATARAJAN*

Padma Vibhushan Dr. Mudaliar, Professor and Mrs. Sengupto, Prof.
Mr. Ramaswamy, staff-colleagues, students, friends, ladies and gentlemen.

Krishnamurthi~

Even at the outset, before I say something, by way of reply, I must plead not guilty to
the compliments, mostly imaginary, that have been paid to me. These are, usually, not
excusable at all, but having reference to the day that we have assembled on-1st April-I think
this becomes a little pardonable,
I

I cannot sing the old songs,
I sang long years ago
For heart and voice would fail me
And foolish tears will flow'

said Chal1ot~ Bernard on a farewell occasion similar to this. To try to recapture the fleeting
loneliness of the fond hours and years that I have spent at this Institute, or to ransom the
many sweet memories I have gathered during the last six years that I have been with you
is bound to land me in a similar predIcament. But I have the high authority of George
Santayana, that life is not a spectacle or a feast, it is a predicamen t. Under such circumstances,
I will have to go through this predicament which I shall, presently.
The sun's rim dips: the stars rush out, at one side comes the dark" wrote the poet
Coleridge when once describing the sudden descent of darkness on the scene. Without any
pretences to being a poet myself, I must confess to a feeling, of mental darkness as the day of
my departure from this Institute draws dangerously near-the dreadful day when I have to
l(

(LA.S., Former Registrar, LI.T. Madras. Speech delivered on the occasion of his laying down office.)

