25
exchange my dear office room for the visitors' room-lam refering to the morning of the 5th
April. Some might ask me what was the silken bond between me and the Institute-that
,;trange and deep affection. They would say that it is the lot of Government servants to leave
sweet scenes and familiar faces once in two or three years, for
lC

Theirs is not to make reply
Theirs is not to reason why
Theirs is but to do and sigh."

(with apologies to Lord Tennyson for the alteration in the last word)
But my defence and explanation is that you cannot find a pleasanter place or more
congenial work spot than our Campus. I have not seen a place which compares even favourably
with this. The famous lines of Lord Byron
" There is a pleasure in the painless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society where none inside
By the deep sea and music in its roar
I love not man the less, but Nature more
From these our interviews."
You are all very well aware that I am refering to the Institute campus and the warm
waters of the Elliots Beach nearby.
It was the poet Shelley who once wrote, "Life, like a dam of many coloured glass, stains
nor writes radiance of eternity". True, life leaves many memories behind-both good and
bad-sometimes sweet, sometimes sour. But my six years stay at this Institute, I must say, has
been a garland of golden memories which, I am sure, has been due to my humble and lucky
associations with great minds like those of Dr. Mudaliar, Our respected Chairman of the Board of
Governors, Prof. Sengupto, our Director, my good friend Mr. Ramaswamy, the members of the
academic staff and members of the adnlinistrative staff.
As I felt and said on the last Institute' Day, to work with you, Sir (Dr. Mudaliar) is a
liberal education by itself. Dr. Mudaliar has placed me under a very deep debt of gratitude.
I cannot do better than by describing him in the words of the Old Testament. 'As a lamb
unto my feet and the light unto my path: As for Prof. Sengupto, I do not really know what
to say. It was Louis XIV of France who once said, 'I am the State'. WIth far greater justifica~
tion but for his own innate humility Prof. Sengupto might well say, 'I am the Institute'. He
has done so much for the Institute.
I have always received the most excellent cooperation from the successive German
Consuls at Madras, the German members of the staff at this Institute, the Directors of the
Central Leather Research Institute and the A. C. College of Technology and the staff of more
institutions as also from the Principal and members of the staff of the Guindy Engineering
College.
I cannot forget my friend and colleague, the Superintending Engineer. Alladin had at
least a lamp to work wonders with. Ramaswamy has been doing them without it. I leave you to
judge who is the better of the two. As for my friends, the Professors here, they have always
(right from the dynamic and 68 years young Prof. Krishnamurthi and the jovial Dr. Koch to the
junior most of the Junior Technical Assistants) bucked me and backed me up at every step.

