26

Professors like Valluri or Sampath, Nigam or Shastri are crazy after research, if I may use a
slightly unparliamentary word. The future of research at this Institute is indeed safe in their
hands. I, of course, cannot forget myoId friends of administrations, distributed among
the academic, the stores, the accounts, the security, the auditor and the cash sections. I hope
I have not forgotten anyone. Their devotion to me has been most exemplary.
Administration is an one man melody. It is a tune of harmony which has to be sung by
people acting together, if it is to be effective. If anything has come out of it, quite a big chunk
has been due to the wholehearted and excellent cooperation that I have been able to receive
from my colleagues in the administratIOn.
I always like to remember my friends- the studen t pals of mine. As with friends,
we can surely say 'Tell me who your students are? I will tell you what your Institution is.'
I have not met a better and more intelligent set of students anywhere. They have always
done their best for their Institute. I would only request them to follow knowledge like a
sinking star, for knowledge is the only instrument of production, which is not subjected to the
law of diminishing returns. I am sure you will take pride in this Institute; for if we, the staff
and students are not proud of our Institute, the others will have neither the time nor the
patience to be proud of our Institute.
Before I conclude I must say this. Having missed the opportunity of being enrolled as a
student of this Institute in this birth of mine, it is my wish that I should at least in my rebirth
become a student of this Institute, preferably without a Joint Entrance Examination. I also
wish I must go through the hands of the academic staff members who will all, I expect, be given
an opportunity to become staff members again, of course in their own respective re-incarnations.
I know some of them like Dr. Klein, Kuriacose or Khader do not believe in re-incarnations.
But it is my pr ayer to God that they should be given one each, as a special case.

Hkghell' IJucaBon &, Reseall'cia
in Canada
PROF.

M. V. C.

SASTRI

Every year, an increasing number of Indian students and scholars seek admission to
Canadian universities for post-graduate studies and research. Some impressions formed during
my recent assignment as a Visiting Professor in that country may be of interest in this context.
Among the many Universities in Canada, those most reputed for their generally high standards are: McGill, Toronto, McMaster and British Columbia. However, none of these can claim
to be equally good in all disciplines. There are particular areas in which each of them excels,
but these also will vary from time to time on account of changes that occur in the senior faculty

