27
positions. Further, in certain specialised areas some of the less well-known universities do
outstanding work because of the Professors in charge of them. At the present time, none of the
Canadian universities can claim to have attained the high standards of the best known American
universities such as Berkeley, Stanford, Harvard, M. I. T., 'Caltech', Princeton and Yale.
However, with the intensive efforts now being made by the Canadian Government, which has
planned to 'invest' enormous sums of money on education at all levels from elementary school
to advanced research, at least some of their Universities can be expected to peer the U. S. A.
giants in the course of a few years.
Many of our students seem to think that it is relatively easy to get admission to Canadian
universities. This is an erroneous impression which needs to be corrected promptly, for it has
unfortunately led to large numbers of our students with indifferent backgrounds applying to
Canadian universities; the poor performance of most of these students has caused considerable
damage to the image of Indian university standards. Indian students seeking to go to Canada
for higher studies will do well to remember that they have to meet with rather severe competition
from 0 ther countries. notably Great Britain and Continental Europe. Admission standards of
Canadian universities are quite stiff. Nor have the widely varying standards attained in Indian
universities failed to be noticed and even recorded in Canada as elsewhere. In the University of
Toronto, for instance, well indexed records are kept of the performances of students drawn from
various Indian universities. Indian students are no doubt known to be cooperative and hardworking, but backward in basic fundamental subjects such as mathematics and physical sciences .
. Many Canadian and American Professors were apalled by the antiquity of the syllabi followed in
these subjects in most Indian universities and wondered if this was not Indicative of the apathy
of our educational authorities towards basic sciences, particularly mathematics, on account of
over emphasis on technology. Lack of familiarity with modern instruments and generally
inade q uate training in laboratory work is another strong deficiency found among many Indian
students. I found it hard to correct this impression, because the resistance in our country
against modern instrumen1ation is only too well known in the outside world. I also felt
somew hat ashamed to hear that the references given by Indian professors about their students
generally failed to serve their purpose, because of the tendency to lavish superlatives on students
who should at best have been only mildly recommended. It is small wonder then that many
American and Canadian universities have now started insisting on our students appearing for the
Graduate Record Examinations conducted in many parts of the world, including India, by the
Princeton and Michigan Universities. Against this dismal picture, it was indeed very heartening
for me personally to find that students from the 1. I. T.'s have fared uniformly very well
wherever they went. This observation was heard spontaneously at nearly all the universities that
I visited. I took the opportunity to explain the "strictly-on-merit" basis of admissions to the
I. I. T's., the generally superior standards of our faculty and equipment and our method of
evaluation of students' performance through assessment of term-work and periodical tests. I
have ventured to make these comments not with any intention to disparage students from Indian
universities, but rather with a view to warn them against thinking too lightly of Canadian
university standards and going there without adequate preparation at home.
Although Canada is a Dominion in the British Commonwealth and many Britons are in
senior faculty positions in Canadian universities, the curricular contents and administrative
regulations pertajning to the various degrees follow more closely those of American universities.
One point of dlfference is that admiSSIons to Canadian universities are made only once a year,
that is, in September, whereas in American universities one can join alternatively in February
also, as many of then courses are repeated in both the Fall and Spring semesters. Otherwlse,

