28

there is considerable similarity in the instructional techniques. As in U.S.A., in Canada also
the students (particularly those in post-graduate classes) are encouraged to think freely for
themselves and "coaching" is reduced to the minimum. Their extensive use of seminars and
group discussions for instructional purposes is indeed worthy of emulation. The merit of a
teacher is recognised not so much by the rhetoric content of his lectures, but by the
quality of the work that he gets done independently by the students. At advanced (post)
graduate levels, it is fairly common to find a group of students arrive at different solutions for a
given problem. The answers are rated dispassionately according to the method of reasoning
used and no student suffers for holding views different from the teacher's. To put it more
bluntly, students are not used as repeaters of teachers' notes. The result: initiative develops
at the prime creative age and original research proliferates.
Turning to scientific and engineering research, Canadian un iversities and research
laboratories are generally well-equipped though not lavishly or glamorously as American universities. Generally, the emphasis is more on physical plant services, utilities and fabricating
facilities than on ready made equipment. The tendency to conserve funds and to use them
judiciously is evident even in the biggest Canadian universities.
Scientific research in Canada is financed almost entirely by the National Research
Council, a Government sponsored body which is analogous to our C.S.I.R. The main group of
N.R.C's research laboratories is located in Odawa. These cover nearly all disciplines of
science and engineering and are superbly equipped for almost any kind of research. In addition,
the N.R.C. has subsidiary research laboratories at Halifax, Saskatoon, Chalk River and a few
other places, where research activity is restricted to a few special fields, such as marine biology,
radiation chemistry, agricultural science, etc. The N.R.C. also provides universities with
substantial research grants and fellowships for specific research projects. What struck me
most about the N.R.C. is the complete absence of any kind of Governmental pressure, directly
or indirectly, on the type of research work carried out either in its own laboratories or with its
financing in the universities. This is remarkable particularly when we consider the fact that
the enormous research funds of the N.R.C. are drawn almost entirely from the national
exchequer. To quote Dr. Puddington, the distinguished Director of N.R.C's Applied Chemistry
Division; the principal aim and purpose of the Council is to promote scientific research and
thereby to breed scientific intellect in the country. "We attract good men and leave them
free with facilities to do what they please", he said. Government research projects are carried
out mainly in a separate chain of research laboratories, which are directly administered by the
respective ministries and departments of the Government. These too are very extensive in
size and scope and are well equipped and provided with expert staff.

