EDITORIAL
"They serve only those who stand and wait", said our pal Milton
with an ins~ght that beats us for he might have been talking about the
travails of the CT editors. Bearing his sagacious words in mind we stood
and waited for the quill drivelrs of the campus to "serve".
(The ball
~;as certainly in th~ir court, you see).
For some reasons beyond our
naive imagination they had'double faulted'.
(They had let two deadline
calls'expire). We don't wish to i~tenni~ify our pun any further for
fear of causing a "racquet-"., Those of you who are game enough will see
the point.
Before we cross courts we would like to thank all those "sports"
out there who took the cue from our ads. at OAT and came forward slowly
but surely with their articles. As for the others, well there's one
more issue coming up by the end of March. So prod your lazy gray cells
into action and rush in your articles by the 24th of March '87. Our
efforts to elicit comments and suggestions from you have come to nought
and save one Campastimes regular nobody seemed to even care!
THOUGHT FOR THIS ISSUE: "Having a mag full of boring articles is bad.
But having too many poems is verse "'.
While fun and laughter don't seem to have gone out of our lives,
what with the elections around, they certainly seem to have gone out of
CT. So turn on the laugh track. Tickle your funny bone and try to make
it as humerus as possible. You may caricature individuals, events,
institutions (I.IoT., Doordarshan etc., why, even CT).
This brings us to •.• the next paragraph (Ha! hal Howzzatt?)
A few words on the contents Cf this issue: Apart from the above mentioned
contributions we've included material from the MG 87 Creative Writing
Competition.
(The stories are based on the picture on the back cover).
As yop can see the I.I.T.ian entries are among the best. We've also
inclllnpn !=;omp' exceptionally good non-IITian entries to expose our
readers to the standards of the other colleges.
Life has its ups and downs (It doesn't take a whiz kid to see
that.)
Sometimes we start at the top and end at the bottom as in the
case of writing editorials. To our discerning readers who read between
the l11)es.

THE DEADLINE IS A LIVE CONCEPT.
And for those who hear between them

E.:O~

.

