-3-

and often expounded his views on various topics in the inside pages. His
first trip through time was scheduled to start on the first day of the
summer vacatinn. Where was he going to go? His first trip would be a
short one into the future, to see how long the world would last before it
was blown up.
The appointed day came. The time-craft was loaded with food
supplies and of course, gasoline. Thousands of flashlights popped as
Dr. Gasser's bulk ascended the steps to the top of the craft. Opening a
latch, Dr. Gasser began to descend into his machine. The gathered crowd
cheered as he waved and shut the door. The crowd became silent. History
was being made before their eyes. As they watched, the craft became
brighter and brighter, ultimately so bright that they had to shield their
eyes. The light's intensity then decreased. The craft was disappearing.
Finally there was a man in time-travel. The crowd gasped at the empty
area where the craft had been. And then - what was happening? The craft
was coming back into view. There was no doubt, the same machine was back.
What had happened was quite simple. Dr. Gasser had merely come
back to the same day and the same time as he had left. The crowd refused
to believe this fact then, no one believes an honest man. Dr. Gasser
told them what he had seen. A major disaster in twenty years time would
completely destroy civilization.
This made him a media celebrity once again. Headlines across
the globe praised Dr. Gasser.
"Time traveller predicts end of the world",
was one. Another was "Traveller in time becomes prophet of doom."
Dr. Gasser was endlessly interviewed and became a TV star of sorts.
All the glamour went to Dr. Gasser's head. He began to wonder
what would happen if he changed the course of history. His .second trip
came soon after this idea. He went back to 1964 and averted Kennedy's
death. Then he was back in 1986 to see what had happened. What he found
was - nothing! An unknown man had saved Kennedy's life. That was all.
Dr. Gasser's ego suffered. He wanted to do something desperately. So
he paid a visit to H.G. Wells~ time and gave him a copy of his own book,
printed in 1980. When he returned after this trip, he felt a bit better.
An unsolved mystery was in all the books. How had H.G. Wells gotten a
book that he had not finished?
Dr. Gasser never looked back after that.
(Not literally, of
course). He began to tamper with the pasts of people he disliked. He
even changed his tax forms and tax-returns. In short, Dr. Gasser had
become a fiend.
He couldn't keep silent about his accomplishments either. He
bragged and exulted in his power. From public hero he became public
enemy No.1. Hatred for him grew daily as his increasingly egoistic
comments swayed the press. Groups formed against him, and the parliament
tried enacting laws to bar time-travel. But what was the use? The laws
would be enacted and Dr. Gasser would simply go back a few days and steal
the bill.
As Dr. Gasser became more and more demonish his hatred for tbose
around him began to grow. He began thinking in terms of destroying
civilization. Over a period of months he decided what he would do. He
would go back to the far past. He would cut the beginning of civilization
in the bud. Then he would have the last laugh. The thought that there
wouldn't be anyone to laugh at never occured to him. His plans were
~ixed.
He would leave these people to their ultimate doom.

