-6THE DIOGENES LAW OF DIMINISHING DAMAGES
Over two years ago, September 1984 to be precise, campastimes had
encountered Diogenes investigating the research scenario in erstwhile
Arcadia. In the interval he turned his attention to sundry other aspects
of the campus, among them such esoteric topics as the meaningfulness of
education. Ultimately he garnered sufficient evidence (selective of
course, for an earlier study had established tha~ research consists of
carefully presenting information consistent with preconcieved notions) to
propound the Law of Diminishing Damages.
Stated very briefly it says that commercial value of an IITian is
inversely proportional to the contact hours actually spent in the classrooms and departments. Diogenes himself, with his penchant for pompous
verbosity, is unlikely to recognise this statement, which is also to the
good. In fact this is a special scoop by Campastimes based on purloined
material (all~s fair in love and journalism, eh., what?) which had to be
deciphered and translated by the hostel mess cat (original sense: furry
animal, four paws, long tail, etc.).
Diogenes may go on to become Minister of Education in the Twenty
First century for all we know, but the arguments concerning his Law seem
to go something like this: About a quarter century ago the UG curriculum
in IITM involved a five-year course, a six-day week, alternating weeks
of theory and workshop in the first year (35 hours of filing the channel
without any change of routine), no off periods unless one cut classes,
no choice of subjects except for an elective stream in final year, no
MG, and no nonsense generally, on account of the surprise periodicals.
What was the result? Only a few made it to El Dorado. Job offers were
limited, and some blokes ended up doing M.Tech (mostly elsewhere).
What is the picture like now? Five-day week. Lots of off periods,
free afternoons, and holidays, besides MG. Liberal grades. B.Tech label
in 4 years or M.Tech in 1.1/2. Etc. etc. And in spite of (or because
of?) Westward Ho being the rule rather than the exception (with strong
encouragement from the authorities) there is great activity on the placement front, even for PGs.
Rules have to be devised to prevent individuals
from landing too many jobs at a time.
Well, what Diogenes did was to extrapolate the situation by
simulation studies on the IBM 370 whenever it functioned.
(An off shoot
of the study was that computers produce results only ten percent of the
time, and with only O.1E+02 percent accuracy.) According to his parameters for the rate of change of the rate of change, a decade from now
will find us with a 3 semester B.Tech and a 1 semester M.Tech.
By that time organisations from allover the world, including the
Mafia, the SS, and the KGB, will be eagerly competing with each other to
grab any unsuspecting bounder with an lIT label. .p~ovided he displayed
the fright' talents. A campus interview by the well known firm of Arson
and Thudrow. specialists in international collaborations, may very well
include some exchanges like the following:
A&T

No, we don't want to know your grades. But how much
attendance have you put in, and what is your JEE rank?

Student:

Well, my attendance has been rather low, mainly because
of MG work, but my •••

