-10 ..

WAIT UNTIL DARK+

- Anuradha Chitrapu, Ethiraj College

As the sun set and gave way to the first rays of the moon, a
semi darkness descended on the town called Asansol.
Children rushed
back to their houses, mothers ran here and there to see if their children
were in, and before the moon could come up the town was steeped in

silence.
Not even a single day was there any change in the town.
No
shop was open after sunset and no person walked the street after this
time.
It was as if darkness was the supreme master of the town and nobody
dared challenge him.
Into this strange unfriendly town a stranger entered just before
The bag on his shoulder and the file in his hand shbwed that he
sunset.
was a journalist. Walking by the lamp in the corner of the pavement he
looked around for someone,

someone who could tell him where he could get

food and shelter for a few days.
But apart from the ominous black cat
peering at him through its white eyes there was no living creature on
the deserted street.
The massive wall, enclosing a huge building which looked like
a church, aroused his curiosity.
The people seemed quite human as there
were quite a few scribblings on the wall, in spite of the notice which
ordered the contrary.
The church bells chimed the sixth hour and the
lonely journalist ran towards the sound.
Turning around the corner past
the lamp post he climbed over the wall and reached the church.
Certainly

someone would have to be here to toll the bell!
The figure beside the
bell was certainly not quite what he expected to see.
With the lines
of age firmly stamped across her face and a stout stick giving her a
foreboding look, the cronie stared back at the journalist through the
hollows of her eyes.
Her unflukering stare made him stammer through his
queries.
No answer did she give him.save the unblinking stare.
After
all his requests remained seemingly unheard he sat down near the wall
under the huge leafless tree,

place he had entered.

staring

into the night and wondering what

But he was not totally surprised for he was

warned that this was not any ordinary placid assignment he was given.
He had come to get a story for his magazine from this town.
Apparently
no stranger returned from this town.
If he went back alive there was
lots of money for him, if he didn't,there was still lots of money for

his family.
Sleep overcame him and before long the church bell announced
the morning.
Hearing the noise frOm the street behind, the journalist
looked around for the old lady but she was not to be seen.
In the
morning he managed to find a room in the adjacent street.

People still

looked at him suspiciously but now he was used to it.
The whole day
passed in bathing and resting and the evening brought the same gloom to
the town.
The servant in the single hotel came to him and sat down by
his bed after closing all the doors and windows.
The journalist decided
now was the time to find out the secret of this town.

Phrasing out his

words carefully he enquired why people remained so aloof and unfriendly.
After much hesitation the secret was unfolded to him.
He understood why
people never returned alive, but now he had the story and he would return
alive.
Well after sunset he set out with his file in hand to check the
truth of the story and get the entire story for the old servant at the
hotel had only told him where the secret lay.
Arriving at the well built main road of the town,

he sat down

below the lamp writing a description of the street which looked so human
and friendly but hid a mystery behind the wall,

+ Story based on picture on back cover.

of the lonely old lady

