-11-

in the lonely church.
Clambering over the wall he climbed the leafless
tree and,waited up there till the hour between night and day was
announced by the bell.

Using the moonlight and the little light from

the lamp that was filtering through the cracks in the wall, he wrote of
what he saw.
The inscriptions on the walls, the overflowing dustbin,
the funny shaped structure near the lamp which he mistook for a post box
and the scary owl trying to focus in the darkness, the flapping bats
which kept blocking the light now and then, and the black cat which he

still couldn't look at.

the bell.

Suddenly the silence was shattered by the incessant sound of
The cat started crying like a human, the owls hooted in

fright and beat him with their wings,

the bats flew helter skelter and

the church gate opened wide, creaking with a strangely frightening sound.
The journalist almost fell out from the tree with the sudden activity.

Somewhere far away he could hear someone sobbing, and the sobbing turned
into crying and then it was someone shrieking.
Through all this noise,
he held on to the branches of the tree and gazed across at the church.
The old lady stood with a smile on her face, unperturbed by all the
noise, as if waiting for someone.
Suddenly the clatter of wheels on stone

made him turn to the street.
A carriage drawn by two pure white horses
carrying a pretty girl came by.
She kissed the old lady and they chatted
for a while.
All the time the church bell kept ringing.
Then the girl
clad in white, hugged the lady, cried for some time and then waving to

her ran to the small wicket gate leading to the cemetry.

She disappeared

and along with her the carriagepthe horses and the unearthly noise.
The journalist wrote for sometime, climbed down and ran to the church

building.
Once again the lady was staring into the darkness but this
time she was not stony.
She was crying, silent tears ran down her cheek
and she was making no effort to wipe them.

She was saying something,

of how strangers were not to be trusted and that she would kill any one
new who entered the town.
The journalist sat down behind her listening
and writing.
Her only daughter whom she had raised from a tiny infant
to a beautiful young lady, had committed suicide.
One evening a well dressed man had come to the town.
The people
offered him their homes.
He was a stranger to the town and was given
treatment befitting a king.
He stayed for a month and during his stay
met her daughter.

The entire town was happy for a wealthy young man was

to marry a daughter of the town.

And then he disappeared never to return

again.
No one knew where he had gone till the head of the town brought
the news that he was married and had gone abroad.
The news shocked the
village and her poor young innocent daughter hung herself on the church
bell and she was found, her gentle neckstranglajbythe rope from the bell.
The journalist slipped past the old lady with mixed feelings,
he was happy he had got a story but the story had had an impact on him.

Suddenly a noise made him turn.
The empty carriage was rushing towards
him.
He grabbed his file and ran toward the gate but just as he reached
it, it closed not with a creak but swiftly and smoothly.
He turned as
he dropped his file and screamed out in terror.
The papers in the file
were strewn all over the street.
His shrieks were heard by the people in

the houses nearby but everyone understood and nobody stirred from their
seats behind locked doors.
The journalist never returned to his

room,

and nobody questioned

The papers were found in the street the next morning plain
his absence.
and white with not a word written on any of them.

§§§

