OH

VENUS,

Hh~

I

COME.+
R. Sridhar,
I.I.T.M.

It was one of those dark, dreary, lonesome nights - with a
romantic full moon that pulls young lovers out of their minds and into
lonely park benches. I was one of those lovers - I mean lovers of the
Night - who stepped out for a melancholy walk down lonely lanes and
shady avenues to enjoy the splendour of a cool night.
I am a hater of
mankind; I am appalled at the destruction that Man has wrought around
him, to him, to his fellow living beings - at the moment I was despising
myself for being a Man.
I want
to run away from it all - get away, flee
to a different world, a different planet - even a hostile planet would
do, as long as the beings there were reasonable and rational. But the
only solace came in the form of Mother Earth; nothing could
be
more, beautiful, more pleasing, more fawning and more miserly than her.
She was the Jewel of the Milky Way - the Nipple from which the milk of
Goodness spurted out. That was the only reason why I continue to live
today. My sale burning fire of ~~bition-to stop that half-baked species
calling themselves humans to stop destroying Mother Earth and themselves
also in the process.
It was while mulling over these thoughts that I was suddenly
jolted out of my skin by a small, gnarled hand that tugged at my sleeve.
It was needless to say I was startled. It was then that I came to
realize that I was standing on the pavement - if a few flat stones at
the edge of the road could be called a pavement - of a very narrow and
dark lane. The street light at the far end cast long, gloomy shadows
and a gentle breeze was heralding the rising of Venus just above the
horizon.
'Saar?'
I turned around as the tug came again.
I looked down at the
old bundle of rags sitting at my feetw As he looked up, the full moon
shone on his face. Oh God! He must be at least a hundred years old.
I'd never seen such a gnarled, shrunk face before and the number of
lines scarring his blunt features - it was horrible.
'Alms, Saar,' it whispered through toothless jaws.
It could
hardly speak; it didnft have enough strength to spew out the words.
I
looked down dolefully.
'Two days since I ate.'

Again the whisper.

'Alms, saar?· it said and tried to raise a thin and feeble arm
up - a bony. hard hand came up and its fingers unclenched to reveal a
lone 10 paise coin glinting as it caugh~ the light of the moon.
I looked down at it. Here, I thought, in this man one can see
what humanity has done to itself. All his aspirations, desires, hopes,
needs, love - all personified, magnified out of shape by that held-out
arm.
Is that what he was born for? Is that why he should live out a whole,
lifetime? Is that why he should allow others to climb the ladders
instead of him? Who is responsible for this? Not me, I say to myself.
It's all been my brothers, the humane humans, so to speak.
I sit down beside him.
showing surprise.
I look at him
and a distant dog barks.
I feel
pity welling up.
Immediately it
+ Story based on picture on back

A few of the lines in his face turn up,
Silently.
In the silence, an owl hoots
a deep down pang in my heart.
I feel
changes to anger, anger at myself, anger
cover.

