-13-

at humanity for doing this to him, and
let this be done to him.
'What is your name?'

anger at the old man for having

I ask.

'Veerasami' he mutters slowly.
He takes his hand slowly to his hat and removes it. The few
streaks of hair left hardly cover his head. He looks away, resigned and
a black cat runs across the street. He probably thinks I am one of those
reporters come to hear his story. Probably he accepts the futility of it.
I don't want his story. I know his story will end. So will
hu-anity's. Then History will be complete - no more additions or
deletions - a huge textbook for future Life to l~arn from.
I take out my wallet from my trouserpocket.
I search among the
notes and come out with a fiver.
I hand ~t across to him. He is amazed.
A toothless smile creates a gap~ng hole across his £ace. I put the
wallet back in my pocket.
'Thank you, Saar!' There was a sudden gush in his voice. A
sudden spright that he knows that he can extend his tenure by a couple
of days. His hands come out, clutch me and try to hug me to him. As
I lean close, I can smell him - the stink of humanity.
I feel a sudden pang in my heart. My eys well up with tears.
there is love left in this world - maybe, it can save humanity.
Then, all is not lost. I pat the old man on the back and go away with
a sudden lightening of my heart.
M~ybe,

I turn into an adjacent street. Ah! There's a cigarette shop.
Nnthinq like eating a banana before you go to bed. I reach for my
wallet and feel an empty pocket. Oh no! ••••• Not that old scoundrel!
I rush back. The old man is gone. Only his hat is there, set
against the wall, and inside it is a 10 paise coin qlintinq as it
caught the light of the moon. Dejected and angry, I stare at the wall the writing on the wall. There, it's all there. Just a matter of time
before the History textbook is complete. I look up at Venus - warm,
glittering and beckoning. Oh Venus, here I come.
§§§
It is not fair to visit all
The blame on Eve, for Adam's fall
The most Eve did was to display,
Contributory negligee.

o

Mongoose, where were you that day
When Mistress Eve was led astray? '
If you had seen the serpent first,
Our parents wouldn't have been cursed.
- Oliver Herford.
§§§

