-14-LOG

OF

AGENT-PC/XT
- Satyanarayana

Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one - touchdown. I had landed! After four lonely years aboard the Esmeralda with
nothing but sick I.I.T. jokes and hostel grub to keep me company (as you
can see, I didn't touch any of the grub!),
I was at last on a planet.
Not the earth
but a similar one. My ship's sensors had
detected l~fe and the automatic steering had
got me down. I found I didn't need a space
suit. I walked out of the porthole and
looked around.
There was life here! They even spoke
English! Did they crack P.J's? I had to
find out. Thpre was this wall in front of
me covered with graffiti. The bigqest one
~xhorted hoi polloi to read something called
Carnpastimes. There was even an owl on a
tree behind the wall. Some bats were circling
around my 'SUPER x8 spherical flash gun' •
(Ed. The sole picture he sent back is
attached. The big white circle is the flash).
Presently I saw something written on the road surface. ERBSwas mystifiedl Before I could think about this, one of the bats landed
in front of me, clattered a lot and produced sheets of paper. It croaked,
'Fill this up in triplicate, please'! My surprise knew no bounds and I
asked him, 'What's the funda?'.

I

I had landed'in a planet of bureaucrats! Their favourite magazine
was COME-PASS-TIME (shortened to CAMPASTlMES) where they were provided
with 30 sheets of double spaced forms. The objective was to fill up the
forms.
ERBS actually meant (as I found
out later)
Eagerly Read Back Sides _
e~horting people to turn to the reverse
sldes of all their forms and fill those up
too.

I later discovered that this was
actually a haven for bureaucrats who had
passed away on the earth. God had actually
~ut them in heaven, but had them removed
ln a hurry when people began queueing up
out~ide
His door to get Him to sign their
varlOUS forms in triplicate! The bureaucrats
became bats for short. They would he bats
tor long too!
Ed.~- At this point the narrative

be~omes incoherent.
It seems PC/XT was
belng ~wam~ed,with forms to fill in triplicate

and ~ulnt lpllcate. Even with his incredlble capabilities, he was tiring. Some
samples from his diary -

~~;~ August 2215 -(Earth time) A.N.H (After Nuclear Holocaust) .
been fill up the,reservation forms in qUintriplicate.
cst. I thlnk I left it in the tree.
l Ed.: He was living atop a tree)

My Pink·card has

