..177_—

ADVENTURES OF A RESEAR

(These adventures are purely imaginary;

resemblance,

if any,

to anyone

living, dead or doing research is acoidental;9
Power went off again.
Arjuna felt dejected.
What a day!
late morning (he had to work in the lab till late in the night), a
horrible breakfast
suppie ...

(stale bread and no butter),

Situation was bad in the lab too.

A

a quarrel with the

Nitrogen was not available,

work-table had been disturbed and the most crucial instrument borrowed
out.
And now the power-cut!
Luckily, he had remembered to switch off
the pump.
Arjuna looked at the letters on his table.

From home,

they had

asked whether he had started typing his thesis.
How many more years to
settle down' ...? A friend wrote asking why he didn't see Arjuna's name
in the Physics Abstracts Author Index so far.

You may find it soon in

the Subject Index of Psychology Abstracts, if the situation persists!‘
thought Arjuna.
Today's mail contained an information sheet on certain
experimental set-up from the manufacturers v versatile, microprocessorbased and all that.
All these years he had been trying to make a
similar set-up in the lab.
If only I were having this to work with!‘

Suddenly, the door opened and his guide, Dr. Krishna entered the
lab.

The characteristic smile vanished from the guide's face as he saw

the expression on the face of his student, Arjuna.
dear young man?" he asked.
"Sir, I want to quit." said Arjuna,

"What happened, my

"no equipment, no facility,

no encouragement, no satisfaction and no atmosphere for research.
hard work and frustration for years.
How am I supposed to work?
better go home and write some bank exam."

Only
I'd

Dr. Krishna listened patiently and smiled.
"Come with me.
Let's talk over a cup of tea."
Reluctantly, Arjuna followed his guide
to the canteen.

"We all have our own moments of glory and agony, Arjuna,"
Dr. Krishna explained, "But, in life, one has to learn to rise above
them and make the best out of the available situation.
Analyse the
situation logically, as we physicists ought to.
Do you really think
that counting money and calculating compound interest all the day
behind a bank counter will make you feel better?"
"Sir, that is not the point at all.
situation?"
Arjuna interjected.

"I am coming to that."
"Ph.D is only a training.
about getting a degree,

What about the research

Sipping his tea, Dr. Krishna continued,

Your worry should be about research and not

which,

in fact,

is not that difficult,

you know.

You should always aim at some ambitious work, some significant advance,
Of course, even if after a few years of
some definite contribution.
sincere efforts and hard work you are nowhere near a degree in a
particular problem, then you may relent a little bit and settle for
But then, the experience gained through the
something less ambitious.
hard work and the training will surely prove to be of great use to you
You know about many of our previous students who have made
in future.
bright careers, both in India and abroad, based on the experience gained

