You must have the right attitude, enthusiastic motivation.
here.
general, I do find it lacking in many students."

In

"But, Sir, why? Haven't you ever thought why the students,
having joined through tough selection procedures, lose motivation at the
young age? You know there are many of us who have ignored other lucrative
opportunities and come for research.
The real problem lies elsewhere."
"I can understand your emotion, Arjuna," Dr. Krishna said,
know about it very well.

To be on the frontiers of research,

"I

we have to

compete with the sephisticated labs of abroad, with our limited
facilities-and funds.
I can tell you that this is about the maximum one
can get in an Indian situation.
We simply have no option except to take
it as a challenge and make the maximum out of the facilities available.
With hard work and dedication, we still can achieve a lot.
Can't we?
We can assure you a good probability of being selected for post doctoral
fellowship in some good lab abroad where you get all the necessary
facilities to fulfill your academic ambitions and to prove your real
worth.
Many of our students have done so, as you know.
With the insight
and experience you gain there, you may come back to improve the Indian
situation."
Dr. Krishna continued, "I also agree that the research atmosphere
ought to be much better.
I know that some of the guides are not taking
due interest and involvement in their students' research except at the
publication stage.
Nor are they trying to be informed about the frontier
‘areas in their fields.
Guides should understand that this leads to
frustration among the students and actually amounts to murdering the
enthusiasm and spirit of the research scholars towards physics, research,
and life in general.
Apart from that, more meaningfull discussions and
interaction should be there - among the students, staff, among the various
departments etc.
You yourselves can do something about that.
You have
your associations which can and should act as forums to wake up the
guides and the whole department towards a better research atmosphere.
All

of us have to make sincere efforts to make our atmosphere more conducive
to research.

See, enthusiasm is contagious; no matter who starts it."

After finishing his cup of tea, Dr. Krishna continued in a lower
tone:

"Arjuna,

I'll tell you from my own experience that seemingly un-

solvable problems will frequently haunt us in life.

But our own strength

lies in making sincere efforts within our best ability to meet the

challenge.
Rather than getting disappointed, one should try to improve
the situation to the maximum extent possible.
Is it not this aspect that
makes man great? You would not have been selected here unless you had a
good knowledge of the subject and the capacity to think scientifically.
So,

make the maximum use of it.

I agree that I too have been slightly

lazy these days.
But, you have brought me back to my full senses and I'll
make good for my lapses."

Arjuna felt his hopes reviving.
Thank you.

Sorry for the outburst."

Dr.

He said, "I feel better, sir.
Krishna said,

"Oh!

come on.

We all are humans.
Now forget it all and go to hostel to take some rest.
We will discuss about your progress in work tonight, let us say at eight.
--- Or, would you rather watch Chitrahaar?"
"No sir, I'll come by eight if it is convenient for you.”
parted,

smiling.

'Yatra yogeswarah krishnah;

Yatra Partho dhanurdharah;

Tatra sreervijayo bhootir dhruva neetir matir mama.‘
--- Gita,

78/XVIII

Both

