THE PHOTOGRAPH
- Rajat Mukherjee.
It wasn't really as beautiful as it had been a year before. Or
maybe it was that the beauty was all ther~, but I could not perceive it.
Maybe the trees had aged. Maybe the season was different.

-i

-* - *

I had met her at the very same place. She was playing badminton
inside, When I went in. She didn't see me, and I could see her scurrying
about the echoing hall, stamping loudly on the protesting wooden floor,
the hall filling with the dull, yet ringing noise. She pranced about,
retrieving the shuttle with skill. She was good. At the game, and otherwise too. She saw me, and her game went awry. She didn't put in any
effort after that, and after a few minutes of listlessness on the wooden
court, she drew away from the lights. She walked up to a chair at the
side and picked up the track suit top, wearing it as she sauntered towards
me.
'Hello I' 'Hello! You play mighty well.'
'Oh' just for fun! •••••
• we walked out into the mild sunshine, a cheery breeze blowing about
us.
That was the time she had refused my love.
seemed so then! It seems so now!

Love?

Maybe.

It

-. - *- *
It was a year since I last saw her. That day - that very day
was a year ago.
I could not keep away.
IT was a Saturday, and knew she
would be playing. I wanted to see her. Just see her. But I planned to
take my camera along, so that she would be with me always, whenever I
wanted.
I walked up the driveway. Dried leaves flitted past my feet in
the springy breeze. I walked slowly, apprehensively.
She was playing, and I was quick about it. Only the flash told
her that something had intruded into her privacy. She turned, looked at
me, and stopped playing.
She stepped quickly towards the chair, wore her track-suit top
and walked in my direction, her face a little perplexed at what had
happened. 'Hi 1 ' •
'Hello 1
'Oh!

You stopped playing?'

just like that.

It was getting boring anyway'.'

We did not go to the clubhouse for a drink as on the other day.
That day, we had sipped fresh fruit juice as the beads of sweat on her
forehead had captivated me. She had never looked at me at a stretch. Her
eyes probably hadn't had the strength to meet mine. We had made flimsy
conversation, for each one of us was wondering who would begin •••••••
We walked down the drive, till we reached a bench on the lawn edge,
under a good tree.
'Why did you come?
you and

I thought it was allover!'

'I thought so, too. But I couldn't help myself.
could not keep the feeling away.'

I

I wanted to see

