-~~-

'Why did you take the photograph?'
'Because •• e • • Well, I wanted to see you whenever I felt like, and
since you don't want to see me, I thought this was the best way out. And
anyway, I don't stay herel'
'Is

it a polaroid camera?'

• Yes' •
'May I have a look at the photograph?
'By all means, go ahead.

If you don't mindl'

It's come out pretty well.'

She took it hesitantly out of my hand, looked at me straight and
long for the first time, then looked closely at the photograph, and
closing her eyes, she tore it up into two. Then, each of those pieces
into two. I could see a solitary tear drop out of her eye.
want

~o

'Please go away! Please!' Please don't ever come to see me or
AeA me again. It isn't good for you or for me. It's allover'.

She got up and walked away, never looking back.
bits of the photograph with her.

She had taken the

I sat there for a'long time, blank. Then, I walked down the drive,
the leaves bloMina aqainst mv feet, but causing no impediment to the
motion. I went back into the mild sunlight and balmy breeze.
§§§

- R. Balaji, 251 Jamuna.
RE-QUEST
Sitting in class one day I thought,
It was high time I found the girl I sought,
Thus began the everlasting search
Which I have carr1ed out without a lurch.
And find her I did, one day Going with her boyfriend ror a sundae.
Disappointed I turned back to the multitudes on Earth,
Amongst whom, I must say, there was no dearth
Of beautiful, nubile girls to suit my taste,
From whom I was afraid to choose in haste
One, who would sit and be my friendTill my very end.
Nubile girls are not hard to find,
Even if the one who searched for them was blind,
They are, everwhere, floating around
As headswill on a merry go round.
But the most difficult taSK I found
was to accost them, when they are around,
For if they don't like your sound,
Their slippers would make you bound.
The fear of a slap on my face
Has considerably slackened my pace,
And so I stand today
Without a girl to keep me gay.
I'm sure that there is amongst you now,
Someone who would like to be my lady love,
I would like you to write and say Whether you would like to make my day.

