WELCOME ADDRESS BY DR. A. L. MUDALIAR
Your ExcellenCies, Hon’ble Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen,

As Chairman of the Governing Council of the Indian Institute of Technology,
I deem it an honour and a privilege to be given this opportunity to welcome His
Excellency and the distinguished guests who have come here on a visit to our city

and to this institution. We have been looking forward to this day-sometimes with
anXiety—and we are glad indeed that it has been possible for us to welcome His
Excellency to this institution. Events have occurred recently which have shocked
the consc1ence of the world. The unprovoked and unexpected aggression of a
neighbouring country on a peace-lovmg nation such as India, which had all the
time been conSidering itself to be on terms of friendship and fellowship with the
country concerned, has been a great shock to the people of this country. But the
remarkable manner in which freedom loving countries have rallied to help India
in its hour of trial and tribulation has strengthened our faith and made us feel
that the eternal prinmples ofjustice and fair-play and the rule of law will ultimately
triumph, whatever may be the initial reverses. May I, on behalf of the academic
circles of this country, convey to Your Excellency our grateful thanks for the
manner in which Your Excellency, your Government and your countrymen
have so magniﬁcently expressed their sympathy and support to this countryin
our hour of trial.
There are many links that bind India to your great country—links which
have been forged by the great scholars who have studied our ancient classics and
translated them into German and made them known to the world at large ; links
through which our scholars have had unparalleled opportunities to study in your
country; and links by which your country has given us every possible help in
our plans for the development of this country. I need hardly inform this audience
that this Institute owes not a little of its progress to the generous assistance given.
by Your Excellency’s Government, not only in the shape of eqmpment but what
is far more important, by helping us with the personnel required for the several
studies which are being conducted at this Institute.
Towards the close of the Second World War, a committee was constituted

by the then Government of India to reView the position with regard to facilities
for technological training in the country and to suggest ways and means by which
such training may be stepped up. This committee, which was under the chairmanship of the late Mr. N. R. Sarkar, suggested that apart from other measures,
there should be four Institutes of Higher Technology opened in the country in the
east, north, south and west.

This recommendation was approved by the Govern-

ment of India and the ﬁrst of these institutes was started in Kharagpur and is now
in full working condition, thanks to the co—operation of one of your distinguished
Professors, Dr. Kraus, who helped not a little in achievmg this object. This

