16
Institute at Kharagpur started functioning in the year 1951. The next Institute
was established in the west near Bombay and it began its work in 1958 while the
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was formally inaugurated by Prof.
Humayun Kabir in 1959. The fourth Institute began to function in July 1960
at Kanpur.
We deem it a matter of conSiderable gratiﬁcation that this Institute is deriving much of its inspiration from such a highly developed country as West
Germany. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany offered to
our Prime Minister, during his Visit to that country in 1956, technical aSSistance
m the establishment and development of a Higher Technological Institute in
India. The assistance offered by Your Excellency’s Government consisted of:
(r) soientiﬁc and technical eqUipment from Germany of the value of
Rs. 1.8 crores;
(2) the supply of 20 German Professors and 5 Foremen for teaching and
training;
(3) facilities for the training of 20 Indian personnel selected, in German
Technical Universities.
The question of the location of this Institute was for some time under consideration and I am glad to say that through the helpful co-operation of the Chief
Ministers of the Southern States in India, it was possible ﬁnally to come to an
agreed conclusion that the Institute may be located at Madras. The generous
offer of the Government of Madras of an area of over 600 acres of land adjacent
to Ra] Bhavan made it possible for us to secure, as Your Excellency will doubtless have seen, a most valuable site in the best surroundings possible. I
should like to express my grateful appreCiation to the Government of Madras
and particularly to the Chief Minister and the then Finance Minister, whom I
am happy to see here, as well as to His Excellency the Governor of Madras for
the manner In which, at all times, they have helped to achieve our ambition of
founding this Institute. In fact, the continued close co-operation that has been
extended to us by the Government of Madras has been a source of inspiration and
has enabled us, within a short period of time, to provide many of the buildings
and other amenities required.
This Institute, which was originally registered as a Soc1ety, has Since been
given the status of an ‘Institution of National Importance ’ under an Act of Parliament passed in 1961. The Institute offers facilities for under-graduate training
and for advanced post-graduate studies and research in a Wide range of subjects
of speCIal importance for the development of the industrial potential of
this country. We have at the present moment full-ﬂedged Departments of
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Humanities, Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and

