I7
Chemical Engineering and Metallurgy. Thus, with the simultaneous development of the training in essential bas1c seiences, we feel sure that the progress of
technological training in this Institute will be of a high order and that, with the
close co—operation of the different Departments, research will progress on sound
lines. The Institute has at present 600 students on its rolls and the whole of the
campus is developing into a sort of satellite city with amenities of a post-ofﬁce,
a branch of the State Bank of India and internal transport system. All the Professors, German and Indian, are housed in the buildings constructed in the
premises so that there can be close liaison at all times between the students, particularly

the

post-graduate

students,

and

the

Professors

concerned.

When

completed, the Institute campus will be a self-sufﬁment township with xo hostels,
5 workshop buildings, 4 instructional buildings and an administrative block of
5 storeys, a primary and a higher school, a hospital, guest house, staff and ladies
club, a bazaar, swimming pool and boating club. It will thus be seen that every
effort isbeing made to give all the necessary facilities and amenities to the residents
of this township so that they may not be inconvenienced in any manner in their
day to day work.
The rapid development of this Institute would not have been possible without
the excellent co-operation of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Government
of India and the Government of Madras. The presence of distinguished members
of the professorial staff from your country has been a source of stimulus and we
are deeply grateful to them for their superb serVices in the cause of higher technological education.
We deem this institution as one of the most important and fruitful of the
Indo-German Projects in this country. And the fact that the former PreSident,
Dr. Theodor Heuss paid a visit to this Institute late in 1960 and that the present
President, His Excellency, Dr. Luebke, has honoured us with his presence on this
occasion to lay the foundation stone of this Institute, gives us genuine pleasure
and encourages us in the task which we have taken on hand.
We are very much indebted to Dr. Kraus, a distinguished mechanical

engineer and one-time Director of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur,
who has Joined us as Adviser to the Government of India for the development
of this Institute. To Dr. Gerhard Fischer as well as other members of
the German Consulate, we Wish to express our thanks for the interest they have
taken and for keeping in close touch with the progress of this Institute. May I
say a word about the Hon‘ble Minister, Mr. Humayun Kabir, who is in charge

of Scientiﬁc Research and Cultural Aﬂairs. He has eVinced a personal interest
in the development of this Institute and has at all times helped us with his wise
guidance.
As Chairman of the Governing Council, it is my duty and privilege to express to the Director of this Institute, Mr. Sengupto, to the Registrar, Mr,

