ADDRESS BY PROFESSOR HUMAYUN KABIR
Your Excellency, Members of the Indian Institute of Technology, Ladies and
Gentlemen,
I consider it a great privilege to be present here this afternoon when the
foundation stone of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, will be laid by
His Excellency, the PreSident of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is in
many ways a memorable day not only for Madras but for the whole country. Dr.
Mudaliar gave you a brief account of the way in which these Institutes have
developed. The late Nalim Ranjan Sarkar had suggested the establishment
of four Higher Institutes of Technology in order to provide in India the highest
type of education in smence and technology. The ﬁrst of these Institutes was
established in 1951 at Kharagpur. And thereafter we were ConSidering how to
proceed with the programme, when in 1956, our Prime Minister visited Germany.
As a symbol of friendship and co-operation, the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany offered to build in India an Institute of higher science and
technology. We gratefully accepted that offer and an agreement was signed in
1958. That very year, as Dr. Mudaliar told you, a second Institute came into
eXistence at Bombay with the aSSistance of UNESCO and the co—operation of the
Soviet Union. And in 1959, the Institute in Madras commenced operations.
From 1959 to 1962 means hardly three years and yet those who have visited
this campus before know what a transformation has taken place. Within this
short period of less than three years, a new city has grown up, a city dedicated to
the pursuit of knowledge, dedicated to the development of sCience and technology,
built in India with the co-operation of the great people of Germany.
We, in India, owe a great deal to Germany in many ﬁelds. For centuries,.
certainly over a century, German scholars have been among the greatest interpreters of Indian culture in the Western World. Some of them have helped us
to rediscover our own heritage. The contributions they have made in the ﬁelds
of Indology, in the ﬁeld of Sanskrit studies, in the ﬁeld of Indian philosophy can
never be forgotten. We know that Germany has a glorious tradition in many
respects. It has a brilliant political and military history, but whenever we in
India think of Germany, we think of Germany as the land of Kant and Hegel,
as the land of Bach and Beethoven, as the land of Euler, Kepler and Einstein.
We think of Germany as a land great for its contributions in the ﬁelds of humanity,
in the ﬁelds of art, in the ﬁelds of seiences and mathematics.

We, in India, also know how the German people after the devastation of the
Second World War have rebuilt their country in the course of the last Io or 12 years.
Indians who visited Berlin in the year 194.8 or 1949 saw nothing but ruins and

