20

huge heaps of destroyed mansions and buildings. And yet within a few years
German genius, German Industry and German ingenuity have built out of that
destruction new ediﬁces of beauty, serVice and utility. When I Visited Germany
in 1955, I was struck by the way in which the debris had been transformed to build
up new hillocks and beautiful parks and to give Berlin a new look. With the new
physical look has come a new outlook and the life of Germany has been rebuilt
so that today she is among the leading nations of the world in soience and tech—
nology, in industry, in development and in every ﬁeld of peaceful human activity.
We, in India, also recognise that the co-operation, the assistance, and the help
we have received from German scholars and German scientists in the past have
come with added premium after India became free.

Germany had helped us in

building up great industrial concerns in this country. Your Excellency, you have
recently visited Rourkela where you have seen how a great steel town is coming
into eXistence in a place which was a wilderness before. Rourkela is one of the
shining examples of Indo-German co-operation, but there are many other projects
scattered throughout the length and breadth of India built up by Indo—German
collaboration.
We acknowledge gratefully the help and assistance we have received in many

programmes built with the contributions of the German people, but I hope, Your
Excellency, you will forgive me if I say that in some respects I consider this Institute in Madras to be the most important of all. In the other cases of IndoGerman co—operative endeavour, they are building factories, they are turning
out goods, they are pmViding services, but in this Institute, we are hoping to
build up generations of scholars, seientists and technologists through IndoGerman co-operation. This Institute is pledged to develop the man-power of
this country, and as, Your Excellency, you know, as, ladies and gentlemen, you
know, the greatest wealth of any country is educated, developed, dedicated man—

power. We have therefore great hopes from this Institute where we are havmg
co-operation at every level from German teachers, scientists and technologists.
I could give you details of the great assistance which the Federal Republic

of Germany has offered for developing this Institute. Germany is givmg equipment worth 15 million Deutsche Marks—0r about a crore and 80 lakhs of rupees.
Twenty German Professors will be servmg here ; there will be in addition instructors who will help us to develop the workshops. Germany has also offered
facilities for higher studies to some of our own teachers and they have gone to
Germany for receiVing the necessary training. When they come back, they will
take the place of the German Professors who are helping us to build this Institute.
I must, in this connection, mention my old friend Prof. Kraus who has been here
for a long time, who has served India ﬁrst at the Indian Institute of Technology,
Kharagpur. Now he has become the Advrser, the German Adviser, to the
Government of India for the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

