21

Your Excellency, we have here an example of the way in which Indo—German
co—operation has worked. This Institute will turn out generations of students
who will be helping to develop the industrial and economic potential of
our country. Simultaneously, they will help to build a Visible symbol of the
co-operation and friendship between the German people and the Indian people in
the pursuits of peace, in the tasks of developing Civilisation and culture, in a
programme of expanding knowledge in seience and technology. German scholarship is famous for its high standards and German thoroughness and attention to
details have become proverbial. Indians are known for their imaginative and
speculative achievements. We hope we will ﬁnd in the Institute a marriage
between these qualities, not for destructive purposes, but for the service of man
in the cause of peace.
We also greatly appreciate the generous help which the German people have
offered to us at this moment of crisis in our history.

Dr. Mudaliar referred

brieﬂy to the shadow of danger under which we are living today. The Chinese
attack has been a shock but it has united the nation in a ﬁrm resolve to throw out
the aggressor. The Indian people have united and when a united people are
on the march, they will reach the goal, however long the journey, however
arduous the path, and however great the diﬂ'iculties on the way.
In this march forward to victory and peace, we have received generous assistance from many great countries of the world and among them we remember the
great help and co—operation oﬂered by the people of Germany. Your Excellency,
you have yourself graciously expressed again and again during your visit to India
the sense of solidarity of the German people with the people of India in this hour
of India’s 611815. We are grateful to you for the words which you have
used through which we have heard the veice of the German people. I am sure,
Your Excellency, you will convey to the German people the deep sense of grati—
tude of the Indian people for the help and co-operation which we have received.
I consider it a privilege that I can welcome you today to this Institute of
Technology built up with Indo-German co-operatiori. It is, as I said, a Visible
symbol of co-operation for purposes of peace, co-operation for purposes of
enlightenment, co-operation for purposes of education, co—operation for purposes
of developing science and technology.
We have received help from many quarters in developing this Institute.
I have already spoken of the great Contribution of Germany, but I would also like
to express my thanks and the thanks of the Government of India to the Government of Madras and its Chief Minister. Its former Education and Finance

Minister and its present Education and Finance Minister and the Industries
Minister have taken a keen interest in its growth. Without their help, without
their initiative, without their imaginative ViSion, this great campus of about 650

