ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY
ON THE OCCASION OF THE
LAYING OF THE FOUNDATION STONE
OF THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Today is an important date in the long history of Indo—German co-operation.
We have gathered here to lay the foundation stone of the Institute which shall
commemorate for all time the Jomt achievement of Indians and Germans in establishing this Institute of Technology in Madras.
In past years Indians and Germans have co-operated to perform great
achievements in very many diﬂerent ﬁelds, and have carried out many projects
)omtly.
For a long time past scholars from both our countries have worked in close
collaboration in the ﬁeld of arts and literary studies. The economic development of India, which finds Visible expressmn in the aims of the Five-Year Plans,

presents your country with the tasks of training above all a large number of
engineers, techniCians and skilled workers. It has for long past been the Wish
of the Federal Government to help you in this, and to put the experience of
.an older industrial nation at your disposal. This has had the gratifying result
of close co-operation between Germany and India in the ﬁeld of training for
technical professmns. Representative of this is the prototype training centre
at Okhla near New Delhi, where skilled workers and master-craftsmen are trained.
The Institute of Technology here in Madras is a practical addition. It
will train the engineers who are so urgently needed for the economic development
of India, and will contribute through research to the expansmn of seience and
engineering.
The idea of establishing this Institute of Technology in Madras dates back
to the visit of His Excellency, the Indian Prime Minister Nehru to the Federal
Republic of Germany in i956. The diﬂieulties which arose in the execution
of this scheme were manifold and could not at ﬁrst be foreseen. They ranged
from a shortage of construction steel and cement to concern regarding a sufﬁClent supply of teachers. The deCiSion to expand the preject considerably,
contrary to the original plans, confronted all those concerned with new problems
Thanks are due to the trustful co-operation between the two Governments, and
between Indian and German professors and lecturers, that in spite of all this
the project has almost reached completion within four years.

