VOTE OF THANKS

by
PROF. B. SENGUPTO
Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The foundation—stone of this Institute has been laid by no less a person
than our distinguished Chief Guest, Dr. Heinrich Luebke, the President of the

Federal Republic of Germany. Our Union Minister for Seientiﬁc Research and
Cultural Affairs, the Chief Minister of Madras and Dr. Mudaliar—to mention
only a few of the distinguished gathering today—are with us in person to Wish
us godspeed, thousands of you have assembled in this open-air theatre this
evening to encourage us on to the completion of our immense project. Under
these auspicwus Circumstances, who will not deem it a pleasant privilege to
express his warm thankfulness on an historic occaSion like this P
Your Excellency has indeed placed us, forever, under a deep debt of gratitude, by traversing thousands of miles to lay the foundation-stone of this Institute
and cheer us to the mighty task ahead. Your warm solicitude for the advancement of developing countries is a byword the world over. Your dictum that
the Federal Republic of Germany should, to the best of her ability and from a
sense of ‘human and Christian obligation’, ‘try to remedy the enormous distress beyond her frontiers’, espeCially in the developing countries, has been a
deep source of inspiration to us and a model to other advanced countries. Your
guiding prinCiple that aid to developing countries should not merely be ﬁnancxal,
but should also be one for education, with stress on self-help, has been warmly

applauded everywhere.
gratitude to you.

Kindly permit me, Your Excellency, to reiterate our

May I take this occasion to express our deep thankfulness to Prof. Humayun
Kabir, our Union Minister for Seientiﬁc Research and Cultural Aﬁalrs ? He has
been intimately assocrated with our Institute from its very inception and but
for his abiding interest, the progress of the Institute would not have been what
it is today.
To Shri Subramaniam, our Union Minister for Steel and Heavy Industries,
I cannot express our gratefulness adequately, for we know only too well the
monumental effort that he made, as the then Education Minister of the Government of Madras, to get this Institute opened in Madras, so that it could best
subserve the technological interests of the country in general and the southern
region in particular.

