26
We are deeply beholden to our Chief Minister, Shri Kamaraj, for graciously
associating himself with the pleasant function this evening. He has a deep solicitude for our Institute. We have not forgotten, Sir, that you were present with
us on the ﬁrst anniversary of the Institute, to comfort us in the inevitable teething
troubles of ours then and egg us on to further endeavour.
To Shri Venkataraman, the Technical Education Minister of Madras State,
we owe much. His affection for our Institute has been a matter of grateful
satisfaction to us. If we have been able to solve our water supply problem in
the campus to any appreciable extent, it has not been a little due to the immense
interest taken by him in the matter.
Dr. Mudaliar, the Chairman of our Board of Governors, has been a friend,
philosopher and guide to us. What progress has been achieved at this Institute
is wholly due to his inspiring stewardship. We will continue to look to him for
captaining us to our destination.
I deem it an honour to express my gratitude to Her Excellency Wilhelmine
Luebke and Frau Schroeder for haVing gracmusly consented to be with us on
this memorable occasmn. We are also deeply indebted to Mr. H. H. von
Herwarth for gracing the occaSion with his presence. I should also thank Their
Excellencies Duckwitz and P. A. Menon for their fostering care of this Institute.
I shall be failing in my duty, if I do not express our thankfulness to
Mr. Gerhard Fischer, the Consul of the Federal Republic of Germany at Madras,
for the great interest that he has, forever, been evincing in our Institute.
I am happy to note that Mr. Chandiramani, Joint Secretary of the Union
Ministry of Seientiﬁc Research and Cultural Affairs and until recently Member
of our Board of Governors, is with us on this happy occasxon. In both these
capacities, he has been a tower of strength to us.
We have, indeed, been phenomenally fortunate to have received unstinted
co-operation and ass1stance from the Government of Madras, the Madras University, the School of Town Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, the Madras and
Central Public Works Departments, the Madras Police, the Director of Technical
Education, Madras, the Director and Staff of the Central Leather Research
Institute, the Director and Staff of the A.C. College of Technology, the Principal
and Staff of the Guindy Engineering College, the Director of the Highways
Research Laboratory, the Director and Staﬂ of the Madras Institute of Technology, and the members of numerous selection and other committees, who have
helped us in every possible way.
Standing before you on the dais of this open-air theatre, completed only
yesterday, I cannot but recall how this campus has, in the course of the last three

