THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
by
PROFESSOR B. SENGUPTO
Director

It was towards the end of the Second World War that it became apparent
that the Indian sub-continent could not be ever dependent on foreign manufacturers for a supply of even essential commodities.
[V V I W W

Tit—7

India, if it had to surVive, had to be industrialised and

that, too, at as fast a rate as possible. The aftermath of the war also made it palpably clear that the
work of reconstruction of Germany, Britain, France,
Japan and other parts of the war aﬂected world would
demand priority of attention in those countries making
it extremely difﬁcult, if not impossible, for India to

obtain the servxces of foreign scientists, technologists
and engineers. There was, obViously, a crying need
for training technical personnel, espeCially at the
higher technical level training, with utmost speed.
2. The Hon’ble Sir Joginder Singh, the then
member of the Viceroy’s Executive Council, Depart—
ment of Education, Health and Agriculture, appointed a high power Committee
under the chairmanship of Shri Nalini Ranjan Sarkar to go into the question. The
Committee conslsted of twenty members drawn from among eminent seientists,
technologists, industrialists, representatives of a number of various Government
departments and the Armed Forces. The Committee was asked to consider
and report on the necessity of establishing, with a View to ensuring an adequate
and speedy supply of technical personnel, a central institution, possibly on the
model of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology of the U.S.A. with a number
of subordinate institutions affiliated to it, or a net«work of institutions on a
regional basis, as also various other matters relating to their scope and size, location, control and management, staff, buildings, equipment, cost involved, etc.
3. Early in 1946, the Committee submitted its interim report.
recommendations of the Committee were 2

The main

(i) Not less than 4 higher technical institutions, one each in the east,
west, south and north would be necessary for the post—war requirements of
India and should be established as quickly as possible ;

