29
(ii) The eastern institution should be set up at or near Calcutta at an early
date ;
(iii) The western institution should be established at or near Bombay;
(iv) The northern institution should also be set up without delay with
specialised training in hydraulics in particular;
(v) To ensure proper planning of buildings, equipment, courses of study,
the Prinmpals and the Heads of the mam departments of these institutions
should be appointed and the services of an architect with experience in plan—
mng of technical institutions secured at a sufﬁciently early stage;
(vi) The management of each institution should be entrusted to a small
but representative governing body, composed of persons with the requisite
background, qualiﬁcations and experience. The governing body was to be
appomted by the Government in consultation with the All-India Council for
Technical Education.
4. The Committee could not come to a conclusion about the location of
the northern or the southern institution although, on several occasrons, mention
was made of Kanpur as a possible place for the northern institution. The Committee also submitted a detailed estimate of the physical needs of such an institution with regard to staff, buildings, equipment, cost involved, etc.
In pursuance of these recommendations of the Sarkar Committee, the
Government of India established the ﬁrst and eastern Indian Institute of Technology at Kharagpur, a railway colony seventy miles from Calcutta. The Government of West Bengal placed at the disposal of the Central Government an
extensive area covering over 1300 acres of land and a large building which, at one
time, had housed the detention camp and jail at Hijli. Dr. I. C. Ghosh was
appointed the ﬁrst Director of the Institute. The Institute took its ﬁrst batch of
undergraduate students in the year 1951 and has since then started post-graduate
courses leading to M. Tech. with organised facilities for doctorate work and postdoctoral research. While attempting to organise the Indian Institute of
Technology at Kharagpur, a number of difﬁculties and bottlenecks were brought
to light. There was an acute dearth of staff with research and design experience
who could be entrusted with the work of organising research departments in
engineering and technology. The research equrpment and instruments were not
readily available in India nor could they be made here without adequate experience
in desrgn and fabrication. Instrumentation posed serious problems as we had
neither instruments nor the requisite trained personnel to handle these. The
necessity of L
0
from
L '
J
countries in the
matter of equipment and instruments was, therefore, felt very keenly. The
Kharagpur Institute was fortunate in obtaining the aSSistance of the U.S.A. and
the UK. The serVices of a number of foreign experts were obtained for purposes
of organisrng the research departments of the Institute. A considerable quantity

