31

The German Technical Mission visited the National Laboratories, important
technical institutions, engineering colleges and industrial establishments in order
to gain a ﬁrst~hand knowledge of the conditions prevalent in India and the pro—
blems of higher technological training in this country. The Mission also held
discussrons with the Sponsoring Committee regarding various aspects of technical
education, training, requirement of various types of technically trained personnel
and about the proposal for establishment of a higher technological institute in
India with German aSSistance and Collaboration. The Mission was satisﬁed that
the German offer of assistance could be utilised for the establishment of one of
the three higher technological institutes in India, provided for in the second
Five-Year Plan. Since, however, assistance for establishment of the western
Institute had already been secured from the U.S.S.R. under the UNESCO's
expanded programme for technical assistance, the German assistance should best
be utilised for either the northern or the southern institute.
9. On the basis of the discussions of the Sponsoring Committee, the German
Technical Missmn submitted a report to the West German Government on the
23rd November r956 setting out the details and the scope of assistance in the
establishment of a higher technological institute. The salient features of
the report were:
(a) One of the higher technological institutes provided for in the Second
Five-Year Plan should be set up with West German assistance and collaboration.
The organisational plan of this Institute should follow the example of the Indian
Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. The location of the Institute would be
either in the north or in the south and should be ﬁnalised, within the next three
months, in consultation with the German Government.
(17) Since a broad introduction to practical work in India was of great
importance in a country yet to get industrialised, the Institute should provide
compulsory workshop training to the students in special workshops to be set up
for the purpose. The period of training and workshop was to vary from 6 to
12 months in the pre-professional year, i.e. the ﬁrst year of the ﬁve-year integrated
course.
(c) There should be ﬁve engineering departments, viz. Civil, Mechanical,
Electrical including Communications, Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering and
Mining. In addition there should be a department of Seience and Humanities.
(d) For the ﬁrst three years the course should be common and specialisation should be conﬁned to the last two years of the course and the
electives, where introduced, should not exceed 30% of the curriculum of the last
two years. Further speCialisation should be concentrated in post-graduate
courses.
(9) Co-operative research and design should be given the same importance
as in German technical universities.

