32

(f) The objective of the Institute will be to impart basic education in
engineering, and prowde instruction and specialised courses to develop research.
(g) The Institute should establish the closest possible relationship with
industry and other research establishments.
10. The report of the German Technical Mission was considered by the
Sponsoring Committee on the 12th March, 1957. A Sub-Committee under the
chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary was set up for discussing every detail of
the Institute project, and for setting up various administrative organisations with
corresponding authority on the German side and to advise the Government onthe
form and content of the Agreement to be entered into between the Government
of India and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the
establishment of this Institute.
11. In the meanwhile, the question of location of the Institute was engaging
the attention of the experts, both Indian and German. The claims of various
places, both of the north and the south, were examined and ultimately it
was decided that the Institute should go to the south. Probably, the bracing
climate all the year round and the old tradition and culture of the South were the
deciding factors in favour of the south.
12. Once it was decided that the Institute sponsored in collaboration with the
West German Government should be established in the southern region, the
different State Governments put forward their claims for the location of this Institute in their respective States. In View of the conﬂicting claims from different
States, the All-India Council for Technical Education, however, decided to ﬁnd
out from the various State Governments in the region the facilities in the matter
of suitable sites, temporary buildings, water supply, power, etc., which they would
be prepared to offer. The Council also appomted a Committee consisting of
Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, Dr. J. C. Ghosh and Prof. D. L. Deshpande, to report
to the Co-ordinating Committee of the A.I.C.T.E., after ascertaining the ﬁnal
views of the various State Governments. The requirements originally laid down
for this Institute were as follows :—
Land: 1000 acres free of cost; ﬁltered water: 400,000 gallons per day;
electric suppy: AC, 3 Phase 400 V 50 cycles; single phase 230 V so
cycles; D.C. 220 V 110 V.
13. It may be of interest to note that before the decision to locate the Institute
at Madras was ﬁnally taken, the claims of a number of places such as Kuppam
and Arkonam in Madras State, Lagir and Kudikodi in Mysore State, Sethuparvathipuram in the then Travancore—Cochin State, Anantapur and Hyderabad
in Andhra State were put forward by the State Governments. Further, the
alternatives of starting the Indian Institute of Technology in Madras in the

