33
College of Engineering or the M.I.T. as nucleus, or at Anantapur at the Engineering College there, or at Hyderabad under the aegis of the Osmania University
or at the Indian Institute of Soience, Bangalore, were also put forward for consideration by the concerned Governments.
14. The matter was ﬁnally discussed at a meeting of the Southern Regional
Committee of the All-India Council for Technical Education on the 4th of May,
1956, which was attended by representatives of the State Governments concerned.
The Committee, after considering the various claims and the urgency of the situation, came to the unanimous deciSion that the Institute should be located
at Madras. This deCiSion was accepted by the A.I.C.T.E. and by the Government
of India. It was also deCIded that the Institute should not be attached to any of
the exxsting institutions but should be a separate entity.
15. The ﬁnal decision having been taken in favour of Madras, the Madras
Government gracmusly offered the Government of India a site within the Raj
Bhavan, known as the Deer Park, for the location of the Institute. The
site measuring about 633 acres of land, consisted of lovely wooded land of about
300 acres, irrigation tanks of about 100 acres and for the rest, a village named
Taramani, just outSide the Raj Bhavan estate, The site, although secluded, was
in close proximity to the Guindy Engineering College, the Highways Research
Station, the AC. College of Technology, the Central Leather Research Institute

and offered an ideal location for a technical institution, not too far from the city
to be cut off, not too near to the centre of the city to be cramped, all in all an ideal
setting for an educational campus, ‘far from the madding crowd’ and in
surroundings calm and serene.
16. When the Government of Madras made the offer of this site, it cannot
be said that there was no opposition to this gift. Ari inﬂuential Committee
conSisting of very prominent citizens of Madras voiced a very strong protest against
the action of the Government which was sure to deprive the city of the Deer
Park which was an open lung-space. The protest was so strong that it was thought
at one time, that the Institutemight have to move out of the city. However, the
Government of Madras and the then Minister in charge of Education, Shri C.
Subramaniam, stuck to the original decision and made it possible for the third
Institute to get started at Madras.
17. Some of the citizens of Madras also felt that the Deer Sanctuary would be
lost forever. It is true the deer have donated apart oftheir homeland fora better
use. Although the land has been built up, the lung-space has been kept intact
with all its beautiful trees, avenues and lakes. The one-time jungle has given
way gracefully to an academic settlement in a wooded campus. The irrigation
tanks are being converted into lakes, suitable for boating. The low-lying rice
ﬁelds have been transformed into sports-ﬁelds and sewage farms.

