34
18. The Indo-German Agreement for the establishment of the Indian
Institute of Technology at Madras was signed on the 7th August 1958 at Bonn
with the provrsion for:
(I) Twenty German Professors/ Specialists and ﬁve German Foremen for teaching/training;
(2) Supply of scientiﬁc and technical equipment costing about
Rs. 180 lakhs;
(3) Facilities for training of twenty Indian teachers in German Technical Universities in specialised subjects.
The Government of India also set up a planning committee for the Institute
under the chairmanship of Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, to prepare detailed plans and
estimates, courses of study, etc. The Committee consxsted of the following
members:
I. Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, Chairman

7. Shri N. Srinivasan,

Vice-Chancellor, University of
Madras.
2. Director,
National Chemical Laboratory,
Poona.

Director, Madras Institute of
Technology, Madras.
8. Shri Qumar Tyabji,
Managing Director,
Osman Shahi Mills, Hyderabad.

3. Prof. B. Sengupto,

9. Dr. S. Bhagavantam,

Principal,

Victoria Jubilee Technical
Institute, Matunga, Bombay.
4. Shri S. Anantaramakrishnan,

Managing Director,
M/s. Simpson 8: Co., Madras.

Director, Indian Institute of

Scrence, Bangalore.
10. Dr. V. M. Ghatage,
Chief Desrgner,

Hindustan Aircraft Ltd.,
Bangalore.

5. The Managing Director,

11. Shri Shridharan Nair,

M/s. Binny & Co., Madras.
6. The Chief Engineer,
Public Works Department,
Government of Madras.

Chief Electrical Engineer, Kerala.
12. Secretary, Department of Scientiﬁc
Research and Technical Education,
New Delhi, or his nominee.

The Committee, at its ﬁrst meeting, formulated the courses of studies to be
started at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. The work of preparation
of detailed plans was, however, left over to the Director to join.

19. In pursuance of the resolution of the Government of India to start the
Institute from the academic year 1959, Shri L. S. Chandrakant, Deputy
Educational Advrser (Technical), was appointed as the planning oﬂicer for the

