36
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(:1)

Shri A. V. Venkateswaran
Dr. A. Nagaraja Rao
8th G. K. Chandiramani
Shri L. S. Chandrakant
Prof. B. Sengupto (Director)
Shri R. Natarajan (Registrar)

..
..
..
..
..
..

Member.
n
,,
,,
,,
Secretary.

20. The 30th of July, 1959, was a red-letter day in the history ofthe Institute, for it was on thrs day, the Institute was inaugurated in the open ﬁeld between the AC. College and the C.L.R.I., by Prof. Humayun Kabir, the Union
Minister for Scientiﬁc Research and Cultural Affairs, before a large and dis-

tingUished gathering. Addressing the gathering on this memorable occaSion,
the Minister said that the inauguration of the Institute marked the beginning of
the fulﬁlment of a dream. He said they should be grateful to West Germany
for their generous aSSistance. He was sure the German Professors and experts
would lay down the traditions of the institution on sound and progressive lines
and give it the thoroughness and eﬂiuency, which characterised scientiﬁc and
technical education in Germany. He was also certain the German experts giVing
practical training to students would help in raismg the standard of the cultivation of manual skill of the students, which was almost neglected in their
education.
Pointing out how foreign countries had been helping India in establishing
the institutes, Prof. Kablr said such ctr-operation and collaboration had in it
an element of competition in excellence.
The Union Minister said though the Madras Institute was third to be
started, it had the advantage of starting straightaway the ﬁve-year integrated
course, which the other institutions could not think of at the time of starting.
He said this integrated scheme would soon become the pattern of engineering
education in the country. In the Madras Institute students would alternately attend theoretical and workshop lessons. The ‘ sandwich system ’ would
help to give the students that re-orientation, which sometimes had to be secured
after they took their degrees, by actually working in Industries.
The minister felt that they had not yet paid adequate attention to education
at the post-graduate and research level. Of course, the industries in India
offered co-operation in this respect but not adequately. Greater collaboration
between industries and research at all levels would be advantageous to the industry and the country as a whole.
In the ‘ age of the engineer’ today, the role played by the engineer was
of far-reaching consequence, because the introduction of a new technological

programme very often changed the economy of the country.

He also referred

