37
to Germany’s contribution to the development of philosophy, music and literature
along with her achievements in the ﬁeld of science and said the eternal verities
of life should become part of the student’s mental make-up.
21. From the very beginning the infant Institute was assured of all help
from everyone. The Government of Madras oﬁered every aSSistance. The
Vice-Chancellor of the Madras University placed at the disposal of the Institute,
8 rooms in the A.C. College, to house the classrooms, drawmg classes, teachers’
room, library, etc. The Director of the A.C. College assured the Institute of
all help. The Director of thc C.L.R.I. made available two very large rooms to
the Institute to house its ofﬁces. The Government of Madras made available
the old Women’s Hostel, attached to the Teachers’ Training College, Saidapet, to
house the ﬁrst batch of trainees at this residential institution. The ﬁrst batch
of 120 students were admitted in July 1959. The Institute started functioning
with its ofﬁces at the C.L.R.I. classes in the A.C. College, with the students
residing in the old Women’s Hostel at Saidapet and another hired hostel in Gumdy
with 633 acres of forest land where the Institute was to be located.
22. By this time, four German Professors and one German foreman had
arrived in India. The Institute had also recruited the required Indian staff
necessary to conduct the first year of the ﬁve-year integrated course in engineering.
23. The Government of Madras were kind enough to place at the disposal
of the Institute, the serVices of Sri R. Natarajan, one of their senior I.A.S. ofﬁcers,
who jomed as the Registrar of the Institute.
24. Prof. B. Sengupto, the ﬁrst Director of the Institute, took over from the
SpeCial Ofﬁcer on the 17th of August, 1959. The immediate task of the Director
was to prepare a layout plan of the campus and report on the project as a whole,
outlining the details of the scheme with an estimate of expenditure for submission
to the Government of India for sanction. An engineering cell had also to be
set up at the Institute for the construction of the instructional buildings, hostels,
residential accommodation for the staff with all amenities and servxces, such as
water, electricity, drainage, conservancies, school, market place, somal services
and community centres.
25. Since the ﬁrst batch of students were admitted in 1959, it was imperative that immediate steps should be taken to have by July 1950, hostel accom—
modation to house at least two batches of students, classrooms and drawmg
ofﬁce, workshop and stores accommodation for the two batches. As a preliminary step, the plans prepared by the Central Public Works Department at
the instance of the Ministry of S.R. & C.A., were accepted and the ﬁrst phase
of construction, consisting of three buildings, viz., the Building Selences Block,

