38
the Workshops Block and the two hostel blocks to house 400 students was taken
on hand. It was in October 1959 that the ﬁrst sod was turned and the excavation
of the foundation for the ﬁrst building, viz., the Building Sciences Block was

made.
26. It may be of interest to know that at its very ﬁrst meeting, the Board
of Governors took some important decisrons regarding the Institute. One of
the dec1$ions was that the Institute should have the followmg departments :
(a)
([7)
(4‘)
(d)
(e)

Civil Engineering,
Chemical Engineering,
Electrical Engineering (HC & LC),
Mechanical Engineering,
Metallurgical Engineering.

Besides these technical departments, there should be ﬁve other supporting
departments, Viz., Humanities, Mathematics, Physms, Chemistry and Applied
Mechanics. The Institute was to admit about 300 students per year to the undergraduate classes for the ﬁve—year integrated course. This would account for
1500 students over ﬁve years. BeSides, there was to be provrsion for post—graduate
classes for a total number of 500 students for M.Sc., Ph.D., post—doctoral and

research work.
27.

The Board of Governors also decided that the work of construction of

the Institute should be carried out by the Institute through its own Engineering
Unit with the help of architects. M/s. Prynne, Abbott & Davrs and Shri R. R.
Sarma were appomted as architects of the Institute.
28. The services of Shri M. S. Srouty, a Superintending Engineer of the
Mysore Government, were obtained on loan to start the Engineering Unit.
29. A plan of the campus was got prepared by the School of Town Planning
and Architecture, New Delhi, through the good ofﬁces of Shri Manickam, its
Principal. A Project Report, based on this plan was prepared and submitted
late in 1960 and was accepted by the Government of India.
30. According to this plan, the Institute, when fully developed, will have
a student population of 1500 undergraduates and 500 post-graduate and research workers. It will be a fully residential institution, as far as the students
and academic staff are concerned. The Institute will have about 8 lakhs sq. ft.
area for instructional buildings, ten hostel blocks to accommodate 2000 students,
one hostel for staff and about 1100 staﬁ quarters. This township with an estimated ultimate population of about 10,000 will be complete in all respects with
its own schools, post-ofﬁce, bank, marketing centre, hospital and health centre,

