39
services such as water, electricity, drainage and sanitation, roads and pathways,
internal transport, internal communication and community centre. The estimated cost of the preject is Rs. 9,3769 lakhs. The prolect as estimated has
made due allowance for expanSion and an increased intake of students. In line
with the recommendations of the Working Group on Technical Education,
the Institute campus will, when completed, be a self-suﬂ'iCient township

students and staff, with facility for education, recreation and amenities
modern livmg.

of

for

31. The First phase of construction activity at the Institute was a bit slow
for various reasons. The Engineering Unit took some time to build up. Essential building materials, speCially steel, were in short supply. Further, the
plans of the indiVidual buildings and the laboratories could not be taken up till
the detailed planning of the laboratories was obtained from the German experts.
It was not until the end of the year 1960, exactly one year after the construction
work was started, that the Institute could get an adequate and steady supply of
essential building materials and the construction work could be pressed home
with vigour.
32. One wing of the Building Sciences Block, yet incomplete, was commissioned in October 1960 for housing the classrooms and the Physrcs and
Chemistry Laboratories. The Building Sciences Block and the Central Workshop block were completed in July 1961 and the Institute moved into the campus
with the starting of the session for 1961-‘62.
33. When construction work was gradually picking up momentum, the
organisation of the Engineering Unit had yet another set-back due to the resrgnation of the Institute Engineer in 1960. However, things began to settle down
towards the beginning of 1961, when, through the good oﬁ-ices of the Honourable
Minister for Works, Housmg and Supply, the Institute got the services of Shri
Y. S. Ramaswamy, Superintending Engineer, Central Public Works Department, for appomtment as Institute Engineer. The deSigning work of the different
institutional buildings, laboratories and staff quarters, procurement of essential
building materials and appomtrnent of suitable contractors took some more time
before the extensive construction programme, which constituted the second
phase, could actually be started in October 1961. Since then, the Institute has
become a scene of hectic constructional activity.
In the year 1961, the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was declared
‘an institution of national importance’ by an Act of Parliament. Under
this Act, a Council was set up to manage the Indian Institutes of Technology,
Kharagpur, Bombay, Madras, Kanpur and Delhi under the Chairmanship of
the Union Minister for Scientiﬁc Research and Cultural Aﬂairs. The Board

