41
The various buildings of the Institute including laboratory buildings were not
complete and though some of the research equipment and instruments had already
arrived from Germany, these could not be unpacked and installed, lest they should
become unserViceable due to exposure to dust and moisture. SerVice connections
could not be taken up as the incomplete buildings did not permit the installation
of electrical and other channels. The short supply of cement Since April 1962
had once again made the situation very difﬁcult. It is gratifying to note that in
spite of difﬁculties, the Institute was able to complete by the end of 1962, the
construction of 9 workshop type laboratories, about 60% of the Electrical
Sctences Block, 40% of the Mechanical Seiences Block, 40% of the Science
and Humanities Block, 200 reSidential quarters, 4 students’ hostels, one ofﬁcers‘
hostel, a market place, a guest house, about 8 miles of roadway, a substantial part of the water supply and underground sewage system, electricity, etc.
36. One of the notable structures in the Institute and a landmark in the
campus is the open-air theatre, which was designed and constructed by our
Engineering Unit in record time. DeSigned after the Greek stadium and Roman
amphitheatre, this open-air theatre has a seating capacity of about 5,500. It
has a stage measuring 100' X 50’, an underground dresstng room and a central
arena measuring 120' XSO’ for group acting, folk dances, acrobatics, games like
basketball, volleyball, badminton and tennis. It has been prov1ded with illumination for conducting these games at night and for projection of ﬁlms. The
construction of this theatre was completed on the Ist December 1962 and the
theatre was used for the ﬁrst time for a very imposmg function when Dr. Heinrich
Luebke, Presxdent of the Federal Republic of Germany, laid the foundation-stone
of the Institute on the 3rd December, 1962.
37. With the completion of the staff quarters undertaken under the second
phase construction programme, the staff began to move into the Campus and by
January 1963, practically all the staff quarters were occupied. The paucity of
adequate number of staff quarters made it necessary to restrict the availability of
resrdential accommodation to married staff-members. The bachelor members of
the stat? had to make their own arrangements outSide the campus or take up
chummery accommodation in the bachelor quarters inSide the campus. Thus,
community campus life, which is one of the objectives of the Institute, was started
in the year 1963 with a population of about 2000 students and staff with their
families.
38. This concentration of the students and staff in this residential campus
brought In its wake urgent problems of water, electricity, sanitation including waste
disposal, transport facilities, school for children, marketing centre etc. Thanks
to the ass1stance received from the Government of Madras, the Madras P.VV.D.
and the State Electricity Board, it has been possible for the Institute to have its
own water supply which assures adequate supply of water, electricity through its
own supply mains, sanitary arrangements including underground lines, sewage

