42
puriﬁcation plants, conservancy service, a post-ofﬁce, a branch of the State Bank
of India, a marketing centre, own transport service and a primary school and a

Montessori school to be started from July 1963. The Institute has already a
Medical Officer and a Medical Consultant. Asmall dispensary has been started.
This will, shortly, be expanded into a small hospital. The development of land
has already been undertaken, which, when completed, will convert a large low-

lymg land into recreation ground with sports ﬁelds, a large lake for aquatic sports
and lovely woodland with pathways. The work of laying playgrounds, sports
tracks, construction of a stadium has also been taken up and it is hoped that the
Inter«I.I.T. Meet scheduled to be held in December 1964 will be at the new
sports stadium.
It was in the ﬁtness of things that Herr Luebke, the President of the Federal

Republic of Germany, paid a Visit to the Institute on 3-12-62, to bless our activities. He was impressed with the progress of the project and gave public expression to his satisfaction over the speedy, successful implementation of this
historic Indo—German project. He came, he saw and was conquered.
39. According to the schedule laid down, the entire instructional building with the exception of the administrative block and the library will be completed by the beginning of 1964. By the middle of 1964, I 5 more staff-quarters
are also expected to be ready. At the turn of 1964., the Institute Campus had
about a 1000 students, and 220 staff members with their families, with an overall
population of 3000. A Sizeable part of the equipment received from Germany
has been installed and it will be only a matter of months before the staﬁ are
able to engage themselves fully in study, teaching, learning and researching, the
destination so longed for so long.
M.Sc. courses were started in Physics and Mathematics in 1962 with
a student strength of 14. ii were admitted to the M.Sc. Physics and Chemistry
in 1963. M.Tech. courses were started with a strength of to students in Civil
Engineering, 4. in Mechanical Engineering, 12 in Electrical Engineering and 7
in Chemical Engineering. 8 students have registered themselves for the doctorate in Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry and Civil Engineering.
4.0.

This cherished hope of ours, has, to an extent, been Coloured by the

sudden Chinese onslaught on our country. The Institute has risen gamely to
meet the challenge, in its own humble way. Accelerated courses were introduced from the academic year 1963—64., to turn out engineers sooner. An
additional three year course for B.Sc. students was started alongside with 93
students. There have been certain inevitable cuts on our expenditure. Certain
parts of our programme may have to be postponed or, perhaps, curtailed. With
courage, fortiﬁed by our successful surmounter of our teething troubles, we hope
that the national emergency is only a passmg phase and will vanish quickly
enough, leavmg us to complete our task of setting up a model higher technological institute, of which our country can be proud. A dear dream would, then,
have come true.

