44
The regional languages of the Indian sub-continent also received the attention of German scholastic mlSSlOnarleS. The dictionaries in the Kannada and
Malayalam languages compiled and brought out by Kittel and Gundert need
speCial mention.
The foundations for Indo-German cultural relations can be said to have
been ﬁrmly and truly laid by a vast number of German indologists and scholars.
And it is upon this foundation that the present poliCies for the development of
culture and economic relations between the two countries are based.
When a suitable name was sought for the cultural institutes opened by the
Goethe Institute in India, the name of Max Muller, therefore, was the unanimous
choice. The Max Miiller Bhavans are dedicated to the aim of establishing a
better understanding and friendship between the two countries, and promoting
cultural relationships. The Max Muller Bhavan in Madras was formally opened
on Angust 20th, 1960, by the Honourable Shri C. Subramamam, the then

Minister for Education and Finance, Government of Madras.
Another ﬁeld of cultural relations in which there has been intense activity
is the award of fellowships by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. The
Foundation is a tribute to the memory of a great German who, in the words of
Professor Theodor Heuss, ‘ was the recognised, though not ofﬁcially invested,
ambassador of the supernatural spirit of science, research and learning'. The
Foundation now awards 185 fellowships each year and at the moment, these are
held by over 40 countries including India, enabling students to carry on postgraduate studies in Germany. Then there is the scholarship programme of the
German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) and the Federal Government has a
special and separate ‘ Exchange of Persons ’ programme. Under this programme,
prominent Indians and Germans from all ﬁelds of activity are enabled to Visit
the other country for speciﬁed periods to gain ﬁrst-hand impressions of the
development of their particular ﬁelds of work. Further, German Universities
also have a programme of their own under which Indian scholars are invited
to lecture in the universities in Germany for short periods.
A word about the establishment of friendship societies and cultural organi—
sations in Germany. As in India, there exist in Germany many such organisations and institutes doing work of lasting value. Cultural weeks are organised
at regular intervals by these seeieties all over Germany. In Berlin an Indian
Cultural Week has been a regular feature since 1958 and in December 1962
the veteran Indian Dancer, Uday Shankar, celebrated his 62nd birthday in Berlin

and presented a programme of Indian dances.
Economic Relutianr
India has dedicated itself to deriving the most out of her human and
material resources and to establishing basic industries vital to the growth of its

