4-5
economy. She naturally looks toward those industrial partners who are giving
her asSistance. The Federal Republic of Germany recognises and appreciates
the ambitious prinCiples underlying this policy and is eager to help.
The growing economic strength of Germany and an inherent desire to assist
developing countries has created in Germany a strong feeling of responsibility
for the economic events in the free world. A clear policy for extending aid has
been formulated under which Germany has been taking part in multilateral and
bi-lateral aid programmes—in the implementation of which an amount equivalent
to i% of the gross national income is involved. This ﬁgure, which is based on
material recently published in Germany, compares favourably with that of the
UK or USA.
The policy of extending aSSistance to developing countries stems also from
a deep awareness of aid received from the USA—without whose massrve assistance in the form of the Marshall Plan the rise of the German economy like the
‘ phoenix from the ashes ’ would probably not have been possible. The President, Dr. Heinrich Li'ibke, has made repeated references to this obligation. He
has said-and I quote : ‘ A nation, which has itself risen again out of deep distress, and received its daily bread from helpers in other lands, owes a special
debt of gratitude beyond the common call of charity. More than other nations,
it must feel itself obligated to satisfy the countless hungry people in all parts of
the world.’ He further aﬂirms that ‘ our nation is ready to play its part in building a Just and peaceful world.’ More recently he declared that ‘ our people
agree that economically progressive nations have an obligation to the develop—
ing countries in their expanston. The Federal Republic will, in its contribution
to this great work, act conscientiously and with a sense of duty.’ He Views
Development Aid as basically a humanitarian problem, one of moral obligation.
I would like to stress the ethical basis and the importance of Development
Aid. There extsts a widespread opinion that Development Aid is only a reaction of the free world against the threat of communism. This is not the core
of the matter. Even without communism, a world-wide organisation of Development Aid would be essential for the provtsron of a digniﬁed basts of existence
for mankind. In view of the communist expansion, it has turned out to be
also a political task. The ﬁght against hunger, want and distress in the world
and the obligations to see that in the developing countries, there should be an
economic and social order worthy of the dignity of mankind—is a problem which
should concern all of us and one which cannot be disregarded.
It is therefore the aim and task of Germany to assist the developing countries, thereby contributing to the preservation of peace and ensuring a digniﬁed
existence.
The pivotal position of India and the great role she can play in world affairs,

