46
are recognised by the Federal Republic which is anxious to assist India and
welcome her as an economic partner in the free world.
The German Government has three main types of projects for developing countries and in India there are important examples of all three.
They are :
I. The establishment of training centres, that is various types of institutions providing instruction in technical subjects and of model
training centres, such as proto-type workshops and model farms;
2. Provision of experts for preliminary planning arrangements, such as
the laying out of harbour installations, recovery of mineral wealth,
public health pr0j ects;
3. Scholarships for trainees and students.
Keenly alive to the fact that a sound technological and engineering education
conforming to standards obtaining in progressive countries is the ﬁrst and foremost requisite to the growth of Indian economy, the Federal Republic made a
‘ gift ’ of a higher Institute of Technology to Prime Minister Nehru, in 1956.
The tangible expression of this is the I.I.T. The German Government have
allocated DM I 5 Million (Rs. 1.7 crores) for installations and equipment besides
undertaking to provide a teaching staff of twenty professors and ﬁve skilled foremen for a period of 3-5 years as well as training facilities for Indian professors
at German Universities. It can be taken for granted that in future this German
assistance will be enlarged by additional allocations for eqUipment and materials as well as for the dispatch of further teaching staff.
A proto-type workshop and training centre at Okhla, south of New Delhi
in the vicinity of the Delhi Industrial Estate was set up jointly by the Government of India and Germany. The German Government’s share of expenditure
on this amounts to Rs. 50 lakhs. This is to be followed by gifts of Machinery
etc. valued at Rs. 8 lakhs. The Okhla project is intended to be a model example
for similar production and training centres in as much as the centre will manufacture proto-types of complete machines and machine parts and develop speCialpurpose machinery to improve existing plants such as COUId be built by small—
scale industrialists. The centre was ofﬁcially opened by Prime Minister Nehru
on March 3rd, i961.
Pursuant to the signing of a technical assistance agreement in the ﬁeld of
agriculture with the Government of India, an agricultural project was launched
in the Mandi District of Himachal Pradesh by the German Government. The
Project which will cost Rs. 1.2 crores, envisages rationalisation of farm management, technical assistance for intensive mixed farming, i.e. simultaneous develop-

