47
ment of agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and dairying. This is a
signiﬁcant contribution of German experience and equipment planned to cater
to the needs of the agricultural economy of India. The German Ambassador
in India made a formal birthday gift of this project to Prime Minister Nehru
recently. The project was inaugurated on November 14th, 1962.
I would also cite the presentation of a fully-equipped mobile workshop by
my Government to the Government of Madras through the German Ambassador
in India last February. It has enabled the Agricultural Department of the
Government of Madras to arrange for the maintenance of agricultural machinery
in use in the districts.
The Government of India is setting up a modern printing press in South
India for the purpose of printing inexpensive text-books for primary schools, and
teachers’ manuals. This Press will be set up on a IOO-ZCI‘C site with the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany which has offered machinery worth
Rs. 30 lakhs as a gift. The whole project is expected to cost over Rs. I crore.
This contribution will assist the Government of India considerably in the implementation of the programme of compulsory primary education in the country.
The industrialisation of South India is seriously handicapped by the short:
age of fuel. The mining of large deposits of lignite near Neyveli, South Arcot,
will usher in a new phase in the industrial development of the South. Germany
which has considerable experience in the mining and processing of lignite has
extended assistance. Deputations of experts from Germany to advise upon
and guide the project administrators on techniques together with invitations
extended to Indian executives and techniCians to visit and study lignite mining
projects in Germany are two projects which have already been initiated. Also
numerous German ﬁrms have supplied giant excavators, pumps, conveyors
and other machinery for this work.
The contribution of technical assistance to developing countries requires
a proper assessment of the needs and the re-evaluation of the assistance in
various ﬁelds at regular intervals. The work of the Foundation for Developing Countries in Berlin meets such a need. India has been a regular participant
in the numerous seminars and conferences convened by the Foundation.
Trade Relations
Trade and commercial relations between India and Germany date back
several centuries. In 1505 some merchants from Augsburg set out in three
ships for Malabar to trade with kingdoms in South India. The exchange
has continued ever since. During the last ﬁfty years the tempo has quickened
with India changing from being a trading partner to being an economic partner.

