4.8
Germany’s participation in and contributions to the economic development of
India have been extensive.
The three Five—Year Plans have been big steps in the industrial history of
India since her independence, It has been natural for Germany to come to
the aid of this country in her efforts to attain self-sufﬁciency through indusmalisation. Entrepreneur activity, Industrial skills, managerial talents anda
rich background of efﬁcient industrial production combined with a knowledge of
machine and men are Signiﬁcant German contributions.
A detailed enumeration of instances where German industry has associated
itself with the public and private sectors of Indian economy is not attempted
here, but some jornt ventures characterised by excellent team—work between the
partners and givmg evrdence of their beneﬁcral inﬂuence on the economy are
cited.
The Rourkela steel plant is the biggest public undertaking that the Federal
Republic of Germany accepted to erect and ﬁnance. Thirty-six major German
firms and about three thousand sub-contractors featured as the builders of this
modern steel plant. A vast number of Indian personnel~both executives and
technicians—have visited Germany to confer with the supplier ﬁrms and receive
training.
The team-work of Daimler-Benz, Stuttgart, and Tata Engineering and
Locomotive Co., Jamshedpur, has contributed to the enormous popularity of
and demand for the Mercedes»Benz Trucks powered by Diesel engines. Tata
has also started the manufacture of locomotives with technical assistance from
Krauss—Maifei and Henschel of Germany.
Bangalore has a prominent position on the industrial map of India
and German participation in industrialisation is reﬂected in the following
ventures:
1. Motor Industries Co. commonly known as MICO—with Robert
Bosch—produces fuel injection equipment and spark plugs—items which are
in great demand for the country’s rapidly expanding motor transport.
2. Hindustan Machine Tools—with Fritz Werner—is engaged in the
production of machine tools.
3. Hindustan Aircraft Ltd—has a team of German experts assisting in
the design of an All-India aircraft. At the same factory M.A.N. (Maschinenfabrik Augsburg-Nurnberg A.G.) is contributing assrstance in the production
of modern coaches.
Apart from steel production, there are the Indo-German Projects for fertiliser
factories, in the electro-technical industry, chemical and pharmaceutical industries

