49
and the machine construction industry in addition to a large number of smaller
prOJects each in their own sphere important. Up to the end of 1962, there were
as many as 300 instances of capital and technical assistance prOJects between
Germany and India.
Among the many construction projects involving German technical assistance and supply of equipment, I should mention the double tube design of the
Banihal tunnel linking Jammu with Kashmir completed in 1956.
In a country where beneﬁts of artiﬁcial irrigation are realised, 7oo tube wells
drilled by the German Water Development Corporation in Uttar Pradesh were
a major contribution towards better cultivation and higher crop yields.
The sugar and cement factories supplied by German industries and erected
by German engineers, German machine tools operating in Indian factories and
workshops, German-built vessels ﬂying the Indian ﬂag, German—made power
station equipment, German cranes for shipyards, dams and railways, German
transformers for Indian industry—these and many other instances speak
eloquently for Indo-German co-operation.
Participation in industrialisation naturally involves the responsibility for
training personnel. The Federal Government and private industry both play
their role in sponsoring traineeships in Germany. Indian trainees have been
regularly receivmg training in engineering and technology.
The contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany to the development of
India can be broadly divided into three groups : partiCipation involving technical
aSSistance, ﬁnanCial participation which may involve capital or the supply of
capital goods on deferred payment terms or a combination of both.
The credits provided by Germany in the last few years to assist India’s
economic development have been substantial. In contrast to direct investments
by German busmess in India which 18 much lower than that invested by British
or American business, the supplies of goods on credit within the scope of technical
assmtance have reached a handsome level. If we take into consideration the
prolongation and long-term consolidation of India’s liabilities, we arrive at
Rs. 600 crores.
Before concluding, a reference should be made to the trade between the two
countries. Revrewrng the trend of the last few years, it is difﬁcult to foresee any
spectacular rise in India’s export to Germany which would reduce the adverse
trade gap. But the encouraging ﬁgures for 1961 indicate that something more
could be done in the ﬁeld of export promotion, the responsibility for which is to
be borne by both the trading partners. Market research, standardisation, quality

