THE VANISHING FRONTIER

by
R. NATARAJAN, I.A.S.
Registrar
The attempted substitution of God by Science and the hero-worship of the
Machine are, unfortunately, the cruel characteristics of our modern age. However
sagely Bertrand Russell might caution that ‘the
Machine as an object of adoration is the modern
form of Satan, and its worship is the modern
diabolism’ and ‘ it is only when the Machine
takes the place of God that I object to it; what—
ever else may be mechanical, values are not’, it
is an indubitable, though tragic, fact that
standards, aims and institutions which were
generally accepted even a generation ago are
now challenged and changing. Old motives are
weakening and new forces are springing up.
Sociology and Psychology, Biology and Anthropology have undermined the traditions of orthodox theology. As Dr. Radhakrishnan has said,
‘ there is, everywhere, a quickened conscious—
ness, a sense of something inadequate and unsatisfactory in the ideas and concepts we have held and a groping after new
values.’ Bertrand Russell was poignantly right when he said, ‘ we were told that
faith could move mountains, but none believed it; we are now told that the
atomic bomb can remove mountains, and everyone believes it.’ Dissolution is,
undoubtedly, in the air. An arrogant aggresstve materialism, nurtured under
the umbrage of the almighty State and mocking at the Individual, is sweeping
a helpless world off its hobbling feet. Religion has gone to the wall.
Of course, the Communists have denounced Religion as the ‘ opium of the
masses ’ but, sadly enough, they are not the only ones who deride it. There are
the ‘ fashionable ’ who say that God is but a shadow of the human mind, a dream
of the human heart. The skeptics, who dub Religion as a pursuit of infantile
minds which the bold thinkers have nothing to do with, assert that there is no God

and we are the instruments of a cold, passmnless Fate, to whom neither virtue
nor vice is of any account and from whose grasp we escape only to utter and total
darkness. To them, Religion and its restraints are antiquated shibboleths. Many
feel that Religion is the twilight moon, fading inevitably before the morning Sun
of Science. They never tire of contrasting the prescientiﬁc world where all the

