52

power was supposed to be derived from God through the open sesame of humble
prayer, with the scientiﬁc, where, they say, ‘ it is not by prayer and humility
that you cause things to go as you wish, but by acquiring a knowledge of natural
laws ’ and draw up the balance sheet in such a way as to show that the poWer
acquired in the latter fashion is much more reliable, as prayer had recognised
limits—it would have been too impious to ask too much—while Science knows no
limits and just waited for Man to unlock all its treasures.
It is true Science and its technique—technology—have given Man sweeping
sway and sceptre over Matter—why, over Nature herself. As Bertrand Russell
has pointed out, ‘ Man has existed for about amillion years. He has possessed
writing for about 6,000 years, agriculture somewhat longer, but perhaps not much
longer. Science, as a dominant factor in determining the beliefs of educated man,
has existed for about 300 years; as a source of economic technique, for about 150

years. In this brief period, it has proved itself an incredibly powerful revolutionary force.’ Verily, the advance of Seience has become latterly too spectacular
and its range too wide for a quiet adaptation or qu1ck assimilation. Nuclear
energy has become a plaything in the hands of modern man, almost like a toy
in thc mischievous hands of a spoilt child. It is a potent instrument for good or
for bad and as Sir Henry Dale, Nobel Prize winner, has cautioned, ‘ can either

destroy civilisation or immensely enrich its possibilities.’ But with all its efﬂo—
rcscence, is Science incompatible with true Religion? Is it true to say that
Science has made Man arrogant and atheistic by giving him freedom from want
and leisure, thereby fostering a ‘ work less but get more’ philosophy? Has
Science made an ethical existence impossible or difﬁcult, to say the least? Should
Seience alone take the blame for all the ills of the day ? These are the vital ques‘
tions which assail the mind of every thinking man of today.
Obviously, the scientist is not the only one to blame. One is surely tempted
to agree with Dr, C. P. Ramaswamy Aiyar’s diagnosis that ‘one of the main
reasons for the catastrophic developments that we are now witnessing in the
world is, perhaps, the exclusive and aggressive devotion of the soientist to his
forte and the preoccupation of the teachers of the world with the non—moral
aspects of education. Not less baneful has been the narrowly commercial and
economic outlook that has produced the universal and illogical craze of selfsufﬁciency whereby a small group of a nation endeavours to produce everything
for itself and to sell as much as possible to its neighbours and at the same time to
keep out everything from outSide. Specialisation, narrowness, exploitation, the
deliberate ignoring of the neighbour’s point of view are all exempliﬁed in the
conﬂicts of the present day, which are the result of wrong national education.’
If the diagnosis is correct—I feel it is—it is clearly the absence of a vital education which provides the taught with a vivid awareness of the meaning of life,
a conspectus of the world’s problems in the proper order and the deliberate
choice of the things that are really worthwhile, that is the basis for all this chaos.

