53
A scientist is as much a good and peaceable being as any other. He gives us
atomic energy. It is for the world to apply or misapply it. It would clearly
appear to be wrong to blame the sc1entist for the ‘ Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde ’
personality of Man. No doubt, it is the scientist who places the temptation but
he is no great saint who cannot resist it but will prefer Oscar Wilde's precept-—
The best way to resist temptation is to succumb to it.
Of course, there is always the danger of too exclusive an addiction to Science.
‘ The biologist intent upon the 'study of micro-organisms, the Chemist in
his laboratory and even the astronomer gazing at his stars’ tend to lose a sense
of perspective and proportion. It is here that the seientist is apt to slide into a
fanciful feeling that his work is the fulcral point of all existence: It is here that
a corrective has to be applied and nothing can do this better than true Religion
as distinguished from mere dogma or speciﬁc creed, posturing or fanaticism.
Science and Religion have the same quest before them—the pursuit of Truth.
They also adopt the same means to get at it—ceaseless enquiry and self-searching.
There is, therefore, nothing incompatible between Science and Religion and, as
such, there has to be beneﬁcient interplay between them, if we are to survive the
gloomy prediction of Bertrand Russell that ‘ we are, perhaps, living in the last
age of man and, if so, it is to Science that he will owe his extinction.’ Even as it
is, Rajaji already feels that ‘ Science has outgrown her original, materialistic arro—
gance. Higher Science has now all the stuff of spiritual thought and is as mystic
as the Upanishads themselves.’ The late Albert Einstein was only very right
when he said, ‘I assert that the cosmic religious experience is the strongest and
noblest drivrng force behind scientiﬁc research. The most beautiful and profound
emotion we can experience is the mystical. It is the source of all true Art and
Science. This inSight into the mystery of life has given rise to Religion. To
know that what is impenetrable to us, really exists, manifesting itself as the highest
wisdom and the most radiating beauty—this knowledge, this feeling is at the
centre of true religion. In this sense and in this sense only, I belong to the ranks
of religious men.’
Bertrand Russell, who is as much a hard boiled scientist as he is a philosopher,
has come out with the statement that ‘ modern science is tending to prove that
there are no such things as things.’ In other words, men and matter are merely
apparent semblances, produced by ever active and perpetually moving protons,
elections and neutrons, whose vibrations just give the appearance. This
is western seience, physical science at that, but as Dr. C. P. Ramaswamy Aiyar
has pointed out even the wildest skeptic will not deny that it was precisely what our
Vedanta proclaimed millennia ago.
Or, for that matter, the philosophy of the unconsciousness or subconsciousness perfected by Freud, Adler and Jung—a philosophy which lays down that
the human personality is seen only superﬁcially, imperfectly when you look at the

