Technical Educafion in Germany

by
PROF. DR. R. A. KRAUS
Adm'xer to the Government of India for the
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras
Technology and Science are so much interwoven that a separation of the
two is not possible. If we think of Mechanics, Thermodynamics or any other
part of Physics, they are as much technical as
physical seiences, and thus Technical Education
is as much an education in selence as one in what
we may call technical matters, if we conSider as
technical matters, the development of everything
that contributes to the welfare or destruction of
the human race be it motor-cars or guns.
Technical vocations range from the mechanics
up to the research and development engineers.
Accordingly the training and education will
vary. In the lower ranges a larger part of training consists of acquiring skill and know-how,
but seience even centres there and it is unthinkable that an apprentice to become a mechanic
does not acquire at least so much of science that
he understands what he is domg and even is capable to think about improvements of tools and processes much to the beneﬁt of
the factories.
Elementary and Secondary xehoolr
Realising the importance of science not only for technical but for any
education, our schools lay much emphasis on seiences and start these subjects
early enough so that a pupil leavmg school at the age of 14 years has at least a
fundamental knowledge of seience. Moreover all the schools possess the necessary
equipment to demonstrate in Physics and Chemistry abundant experiments to
make the laws clear and unforgettable. Needless to say the classrooms are ﬁtted
with all installations necessary for demonstrating and that the demonstrations are
prepared by the teacher before a class starts so that no time is squandered.
The education in school is essentially the same as in all schools the world
over. A marked difference is the number of years spent in school. Everybody
has at least to Visit the elementary school, which he enters at the age of 6 years

