56
and which, if he does not go for higher learning, he will leave at the age of 14 years.
A pupil with the capacity for higher learning may at the age of IO years switch
over to a secondary school, which he leaves at the age of 16 years. The ﬁnal
examination of the secondary school does not entitle him to Visit auniversity.
After passing through the secondary school a pupil might stay on for another 3
years and thus leave the school at the age of 19 years. The examination he passes
entitles him to enrolment at any one of the technical or non-technical universities.
Considering technical education only pupils leaving school at 14 years of age
or after 8 years of school attendance are the ones going for a vocation as skilled
mechanics. Those leaving school at the age of 16 years or after 10 years of school
attendance go for a vocation as what may be called applied enigneers, while the
ones who continue in school up to the age of 19 years will become academic
engineers.

Mechanics and Faremen
To become a mechanic one has to go through an apprenticeship of 3 years.
Apprentices are trained in factories which usually have a spemal department for
apprentices under the guidance of one or more well-trained and experienced
foremen-instructors. The training follows a well worked-out plan approved by
the Chamber of Industry and Commerce. Besides the training in the factory
the apprentice has to attend an apprentice school of the respective state government for one or two days per week. After ﬁnishing the apprenticeship the
apprentice has to pass an examination before the Chamber of Industry and Commerce and only after having passed the examination successfully he is entitled to
call himself a skilled mechanic.
After several years of experience as a mechanic and only after he ﬁnds himself
superior to average mechanics, a mechanic may strive to become a foreman.
When he passes an admission examination he Visits a course of one year duration
at one of our technical schools and concludes his studies with an examination,
which brings him the title of foreman. With this course the training of a foreman,
who rose in any case from the state of a highly skilled mechanic, does not come to
an end. He will attend from time to time to special courses of shorter duration
on subjects like time and motion studies, workshop organisation, workshop management etc. The German foreman being familier not only with the
work of mechanics but also with therequirements needed for running a workshop,
is put in charge of one or the other workshop and is responsible for it. The
works management prepares everything what is needed for the work in shops,
issues its orders to the foreman-in-charge and after that the foreman is left to himself and bears the responsibility for his shop and its products. Nobody has to
interfere with his work, which anyway he knows best.

