57
Applied Engineers
Omitting schools for training of draftsmen and schools for training of what
are called technicians, which are meant for drawing and design of simple equipment, we may consider what we call schools for engineers. Admission requires
attendance of secondary school up to the age of 16 years or 10 years of schooling
and as a minimum 2 years of practical training. The subsequent education in
the engineering school takes 2% or 3 years. Only in such schools the education
is based on text—books and consequently the students are learning in distinction
from the universities, where they are studying. Accordingly the aim of such
engineering schools is to produce engineers who are particularly ﬁt to apply
technical sciences, be it as designing or as production engineers. The extensive
practical training keeps the student’s mind on production and while working in
drawing classes, he will do his drawings with the view on easy, accurate and
economical production. About 90% of the engineers in German industry are
such, so to say, applied engineers. They may be civil, electrical, mechanical,
chemical, metallurgical or mining engineers.
The engineering schools are equipped with the necessary laboratories, which,
since no research Work is done except by interested teachers, are only of such
extension as needed for routine testing of machinery and measurements. Such
schools are well equipped with all facilities for demonstration of physical and
chemical experiments in the respective classrooms, with models and charts
and ﬁlms and slides of technical objects and as a matter of course also with projectors and blackout curtains in the various classrooms.

Since a student in any school is not only supposed to learn, but should also
feel that he is cared for and moreover should develop a sense of orderliness,
the classrooms and the entire school are spotlessly clean, walls are properly
painted, seats are comfortable and blackboards are large and really black.
Students are invited to ask questions during lectures, and engineering societies
of the students are welcome to forward proposals or complaints to make
education as successful as possible and to quench dissatisfaction.
Technical Universities
Since I 3 years of education in school are required for admission to a university, a student is not less than 19 years old, when he applies for enrolment.
In case of mechanical, chemical and some other branches of engineering practical
training is required to make the student familiar with the ways and difﬁculties
of production. Half of the training has to be absolved before the start of studies,
while the rest of the training can be done during vacations. The training
ofﬁcer provides the student with a curriculum for his training and places him
in a suitable factory. The student is obliged to keep a record of his training
and submit it to the training ofﬁcer.

