58
The 13 years at school give ample time to study Mathematics, Physics,
Chemistry and to do many problems. The ﬁrst year at the university therefore
starts at quite a high level in these sciences and also commences with Engineering seiences like Mechanics, Strength of Materials and others. Humanities
have already been studied in school, and practical training is excluded from the
study courses. Thus devoting the whole time to studies, it was originally
thought that 4. years of studies would suﬂice for the technical education at a
university. Practically it takes at present at least 5;» years to graduate and to
get the degree of a Diplom-Ingenieur. Counting from entering school a boy
has to put in 19 years of learning and studying or in other words he is 25 years
old when leavmg the university. In comparison a B.Tech. has put in is or
16 years all together and an M.Tech. 2 years more, which comes to I7 or 18 years
of learning and leavmg the university at the age of 24 years. This may explain
why German universities do not conSider a B.Tech. degree quite equal to
the degree of a Diplom-Ingenieur. The curricula are in both cases about the
same. The reasons for the longer time needed at German universities are
various. The academic engineer is from the beginning trained for independent
work, because later on in industry he is expected to play a leading and progresSlVe part in deSign, production or research. There are no text—books, which will
be followed by the professor and on which the student can rely. The professor
teaches what he thinks best, and the student takes down notes and completes

them by studying literature, which the professor will recommend to him. To
make it easier for the student, most professors issue imprints containing
important data, diagrams, formulae etc. For this purpose the I.I.T. Madras
has 3 years ago been prOVided with a Rotaprint machine. The lectures are
accompanied by seminars, where one of the students is asked to refer about a
given topic and to stand the questions and discussmns coming from the attend—
ing students and professors. Further on there are design and draWing classes,
where the students beginning with elements of machines proceed to the deSign—
ing of complete machinery. Each student gets a separate problem to ensure
as far as possible independent work. The draWing classes are only meant as
an occaSion for the student to come and to get adVice from the instructors or
professors. The hours set apart in the time-table for drawing classes would
by far he insut’riCient to accomplish the draWings. This is next to the studies
one main reason, why so many years are needed till one is admitted to the ﬁnal
examination.

Another reason is the extenswe work in laboratories, which is

essential for creation of research~mindedness and ability. The PhySics laboratory is the ﬁrst laboratory in which the students work. Since during lectures
the professor demonstrates all fundamental experiments, the students know,
how it is done, and therefore in the laboratory can be put to speCial problems,
for which they will find the equipment prepared by the laboratory attendants.
They work in small groups or Single as the case may require. In the Physics
laboratory the student becomes prepared for the work in the engineering labo—
ratories. This is why extenswe and independent work in Physms and richly

