59
available equipment are an absolute necessity. The work in the engineering
laboratories is of two kinds. There are laboratory classes, where groups of
students work under the guidance of the professor and his staff. Besrdes that
students get individual aSSignments of problems, which they have to work on
independently and which in fact are research problems. To make all this laboratory work possible, each laboratory has a sufﬁc1ent staff of mechanics and its
own workshop to help a student to rig up a test stand and to prov1de him with
the needed materials. After submitting the required drawmgs and reports
about his research work in the laboratories and after havmg passed the ﬁnal
examination, the student is obliged to work on a the51s for 3 months in case of
deSign work and 4 months in case of laboratory work to get his certiﬁcates as
Diplom-Ingenieur.
To get the degree of Doktor—Ingenieur (Dr.-Ing.), which requires in the
average 3 years of research, a candidate has to submit a theSis, which must show
progress in seience and which has to be done independent of any help. The
theSis is examined by two or three professors of the same or other universities.
The oral examination IS public and conducted by a committee of 3 to 4 professors.
After some years and after publishing research papers and completing a
more comprehenswe paper, a Doktor-Ingenieur may apply for the degree of a
Doktor—lngenieur habilitatus (Dr.-Ing. habil.), which degree entitles him to
lecture at the respective university. After his thesis work has been accepted
by the department, as an examination he has to deliver a lecture before the
entire staff of the department and has to stand an exhaustive discussmn
afterwards.
Academic Freedom
We may distinguish between the academic freedom of the students and of
the professors.
Regarding the students, they are free to choose among a considerable number of elective subjects supplementary to the compulsory subjects and they are
also free to attend the lectures or acquire their knowledge in other ways. It
is left to their own consc1ence and responsibility how they carry on with their
studies. They are not pupils but grown-up students, and for failures they have
nobody to blame but themselves.
The professors are appointed for a certain limited ﬁeld of engineering. It
is left to them what they teach within this ﬁeld and how they do it. They have
a certain administrative and research staff, in certain cases also aSSistant professors to whom the professor may ass1gn certain lectures. The professor asSigns
the work to the staff. There is no question of interfering of a Head of Department or of a Director. The budget for the professor, his staff and laboratories
5

