60
is granted by the Ministry of Culture of the respective state, and the professor
spends his means within the budget according to his own Judgment.
Organisation of a Techmml University
Every full professor is in charge of a so—called chair, for instance chair of
Combustion Engines or chair of Turbomachinery etc. A chair comprises the
pertaining laboratories, the administrative staff, research staff, instructors, chief

engineer and workshop staff, Assxstant Professors and so-called Selentiﬁc Advisers,
which do lecturing and research work as may be assigned to them by the professor.
The chairs of a branch of engineering, for instance Mechanical Engineering,
are combined into a department. The Head of the Department is one of the
professors elected by them for two years, after which another professor takes
over. The Head of Department calls for departmental meetings, where problems of general interest are discussed and directives to the Heads of Departments
are given. He has an office with an administrative staff to carry out the detail
work.
Two or more departments with common interests like Mechanical and
Electrical Engineering form a faculty. The Head of the Faculty is again one of
the professors elected by them for two years.
The Heads of Faculties and Departments form a Senate which is presided
over by the Rector. Also the Rector is one of the professors and after two years is
succeeded by another professor. The Rector represents the University in public
and also before the Minister of Culture. He co-ordinates the interests of the
faculties and, in consultation with the Senate, takes decisions for the whole
University. He has however Just as the Heads of Faculties and Departments
not to interfere with the work of the professors.
To become a professor requires a minimum of to years experience in industry and research, a reputation for this work and on invitation a number of
successful lectures before the staff of the respective department. Hereaftera
candidate on recommendation from the department in the ﬁrst instance is

appomtcd by the Minister for lifetime.
appomted by the professor himself.

The staff of chair is selected and

The administration is placed under the Rector of the University but otherwise entirely separated from the academic staff. Since every professor has his
budget and also the freedom to spend his grants as he thinks ﬁt and to purchase
eqUIpment directly from the supplier, the administration does only the book—
keeping for him, Otherwise the administration has the same tasks as anywhere
else.

