62
modate all the staff will be over 1,100 quarters. The residential quarters are
being located as near to the main Guindy-Adyar Road as possible in order to
give easy access to the occupants of the quarters to the main-road, the State
Transport etc. In the layout of the quarters efforts have been made to have a
mixed colony, the houses for the Professors, Assistant Professors and Lecturers
being intermingled with each other. Further, in the lay-out of each of the
buildings, the natural ventilation aspect has been fully taken care of and most
of the buildings are facing either the south or the east direction so that the natural
ventilation is not obstructed. Another important aspect that has been considered
in the lay-out of the quarters is the retention of as many of the trees as possible
around each of the quarters. In fact the location of the quarters has been done
in as much of the open space as is available after retaining most if not all goodsized trees—the only exceptions being perhaps the palm trees which are not of
much signiﬁcance. The residential quarters are being built in various stages
depending upon the recruitment of staff and the progressive development of the
Institute. In the ﬁrst phase of the construction of the residential quarters, the
following constructions have been undertaken and completed.
Director’s quarters
Professors’ quarters
Assistant Professors’ quarters

..
..
..

Lecturers’ quarters

. .

I No.
20 Nos.
IO
,,
24

,,

quarters
.
. .
Junior Technical Assistants, Mechanics, Foremen’s
quarters
. .

42

,,

66

,,

Class IV staff quarters

60

,,

Associated Lecturers and Senior Technical Assistant ’

..

In the second phase of the construction of the quarters, the following units
are proposed to be constructed:
(1) Assistant Professors’ quarters
(2) Lecturers’ quarters
(3) Associate Lecturers’ and Senior Technical Assistants’ quarters.
(4) Ofﬁce Assistants’ and U.D.Cs’ quarters
(5) Class IV staff quarters.
The total provision for residential quarters in the Project Report is Rs. 176.62
lakhs and the ﬁrst phase of construction has cost the Institute approximately

Rs, 27_63 lakhs and the second phase of construction which is being undertaken
will cost about Rs. 27.42 lakhs for which necessary funds are available. The
entire programme of construction of quarters is expected to be completed by

1966.

