()6
has a R.C.C. shell roof construction. The workshop hails are located on either
side of a common corridor and are provided with auxiliary facilities like storerooms, staff rooms etc, The total plinth area of the workshop building is
68,891 sq.ft., the carpet area being 58,241 sq.ft. The cost of the building is
Rs. ”46,107 worked out at a plinth area rate of Rs. 23.60 per sq. ft. The
\Vorkshop is ﬁtted with the most modern equipment.
(1') Laboratories : As an aid to the practical aspect of teaching and
research, various departments have been provided with special laboratory
facilities to enable them to conduct experiments and research. The labora<
tories which are however likely to be noisy and dirty and would require large
supplies of water and power and have waSte disposal problems have been separated from the main Departmental Buildings and have been housed in In—
dividual Unit laboratories. At the present moment Individual Unit 1abora<
tories are under constructim for Steam Engines and Thermodynamics,
LC. Engines, Metallurgy, Chemical Engineering, Fluid Mechanics, Turbo

Fig. 6
Machines, Hydraulic Machines and Hydraulic Structures.

Further, labo-

ratories for hot and cold working of metal, a special shed for Chemical Engineer—
ing and a structures’ laboratory are under contemplation. The design of the
laboratories includes rooms in the front of the laboratory hall to provide space
for a small workshop, instrument room, store, seminar room, research rooms
etc. and at the back is a laboratory shed 120’ x 50' for installing the machines
and conducting experiments and research. Special facilities of power, water
supply, steam, compressed air, vacuum, etc. are being provided in the laboratories, in accordance with their special requirements. The laboratories
under construction are in various stages of completion and are expected to be
ready for use from the next academic year.
3. Hostel Setter: The Institute in its ultimate set-up will have for the
Five Year Courses 1,600 under-graduates plus another 400 students in PostGraduate courses leading to Master’s Degree, Doctorate and other research
schemes. Hostel accommodation will therefore be required ultimately for
2,000 boys. A unit of the hostel has been ﬁxed at approximately 200 boys and
therefore 10 hostels will be required to accommodate the 2,000 boys. In the
ﬁrst phase of construction two hostels were built to accommodate 424. boys.

