68
In addition to the 10 hostels for the students an Ol'ﬁcers’ Hostel to accommodate 42 Ofﬁcers has also been completed (Fig. 9). The accommodation

Fig. 9
provided in the Ofﬁcers’ Hostel is a single room 12' X 10' for each Ofﬁcer with an
attached bathroom and a balcony.

There is a common-room, a kitchen and a

dining hall for all the 42 ofﬁcers that are likely to stay in the hostel.
This accommodation is meant especially for the Bachelor Members of the staff
of the Institute and the staff and senior members who are likely to come from
other Institutes for a short period either for seminars or refresher courses or for
any other special meetings or discussions.
In addition to this it is also proposed to have a Girls’ Hostel to accommodate
the girl students who are likely to join the Institute.
4. Recreational Setter : In this sector it is proposed to provide necessary
playgrounds, swimming-pool and gymnasium and a lake for students where rowing
facilities are expected to be provided. The playgrounds arelocated in between the
residential quarters and hostels and nearer to the hostels for the beneﬁt of the
students staying within the campus.
5.

Other amenitz'ex:

In a campus of this nature special facilities for re-

creation, children‘s education, marketing etc. become a fundamental necessity.

For recreational purposes, an open-air stadium to accommodate about 5000 persons
has been constructed at a cost of about Rs. 2-} lakhs and is available for special

occasions.
A marketing centre for meeting the daily necessities of both the students
and staff members staying in the campus has been constructed. It15 proposed to
construct necessary schools for both the primary and secondary stage students.
A small hospital with 15 beds is also proposed to be constructed for the beneﬁt
of the occupants of the campus. A branch of the State Bank of India is already
functioning in the campus from 19-11-62 and a post-ofﬁce has been functioning
from 2—7-62. The Institute has its own transport services for the facility of the
staﬁ and students who have to go out of the campus to catch the normal State
Transport buses etc. There are two buses of the Institute running at frequent
intervals.

