69
A small Guest House with 4. beds has been constructed for the beneﬁt
of any important guests likely to visit the Institute.
6. Service: : Necessary services like roads, parks, water supply, electricity,
drainage have all been provided to reasonable standards.
(a) Road: : A total length of 16.4 miles are proposed to be provided when
the campus is ultimately developed. For the present 7.5 miles of roads have
been completed. There are three main important roads in the campus
and they have been named Delhi Avenue, Bonn Avenue and Madras
Avenue, to symbolise the common eﬂorts being put by the West German
Government, the Government of India and the Government of Madras in the

setting up of this Institute.
(b) Water Supply .‘ The water supply to the campus will ultimately be
from two main sources namely the Urur Water Supply Scheme sponsored by
the Institute at Urur about 3 miles from the Institute and an assured supply

of 4 lakh gallons per day from the Municipal Corporation of Madras. The
watcr that is pumped from the Urur Scheme and the supply from the Corporation
is expected to be collected in a sump near the entrance gate and pumped to two

overhead reservoirs of the capacity of 1,50,000 gallons and 50,000 gallons
suitably located to serve the entire campus. Necessary main and branch lines
have been laid to serve the entire area. The total length of pipe-line that will
ultimately be laid is 10.7 miles of which 9.4 miles of pipe-line work has already
been completed.
(0) Sewerage : The Campus is served by underground sewers. The sewage
is ultimately treated in an oxidation pond. The treated sewage is being used to

develop a sewage farm at the periphery of the campus. The total length of
sewage lines to be laid in the campus is 13.00 miles of which 7.5 miles of sewage
line work has already been completed.
((1) Electricity : The ultimate requirement of electricity in the campus is
about 2,000 Kw of which the Government ofMadras have for the present assured
a supply of 1,000 Kw and a further request for additional supply of another 1,000
Kw is being made. The distribution within the campus has been the responsibility of the Institute authorities and necessary transformers and sub-stations
have been provided for this purpose.
The total cost of the entire Civil Works in the setting up of the campus is
expected to be Rs. 4.65 crores out of which Rs. 1.7 crores have already been spent
and the balance is expected to be spent in the years to come. The budget
allotment for the year 1962-63 is Rs. 120 lakhs and for 1963-64 Rs. 80 lakhs.
When the entire compus is completed it will be a small self-contained township of 10,000 persons with all up-to~date facilities provided within the campus.

