7X

III
IV
V

Year
Year
Year

—History and Culture—2 hours a week.
—Principles of EconomicsAz hours a week.
—(a) Industrial Economics including
Cost Accounts and Labour Relations. l 2 hours a week.
7(b) Industrial Management, including
Industrial
Psychology
and
~ 3 hours a week.
Human Relations.
5

These are days of specialization : and a Higher Institute of Technology like
ours at Madras has as its primary aim the giving of specialised training to its
students to enable them to become good technologists and engineers. The need
for ﬁrst rate specialists in Technology, especially in an under-developed country
like ours, is very great. Without them, there can be no scientiﬁc progress
or technical or technological accomplishment. Vast scope for specialisation is
available in the ﬁelds of Pure Science and/or Applied Science.
At the undergraduate level, the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras,
is training its students (in addition to the Humanities) in Mathematics, Physics
and Chemistry, and in one of the specialities—Civil, Mechanical, Electrical,
Chemical Engineering and Metallurgy. Out of 39 hours a week, students devote
about 36 hours for the study of Pure and Applied Sciences.
All over the world, and particularly in the developed countries of the West,
people are recognising the need for some general education being imparted to
students undergoing specialised courses in Science. In India also, great
luminaries like the President of the Indian Union, the Prime Minister of India,
Ministers of Education at the Centre and the States, University authorities, and
distinguished educationists who can speak on the subject from their rich experience
have all spoken with one voice on the need for teaching some Humanities subjects
in_ Professional Colleges. To take only one example, some months back, the
Minister in charge of Education with the Union Government, expressed himself
on the subject in unequivocal terms. According to him, subjects like history,
languages and Social Studies should be introduced in the curriculum of
professional colleges, as the Humanities widen the outlook of men, and give a new
meaning to their profession. Another great educational authority thinks on the
same lines, and is of the opinion that as part of general education in a Professional
Institute there should be provision in the syllabus for the study of foreign
languages, the thought and culture of the ancients, the elements of Economics,
the study of international relations, and some other kindred subjects.
The question has sometimes been asked why the Humanities should be taught
at all to prospective engineers and technologists. It is said that when a student
enters an Engineering College or a Higher Technological Institute, he has already

