72

received the necessary general education, and that there is no further need for
special provision being made for any more training in the languages and the
Social Sciences. Some may even go to the extent of saying that the Humanities
may be scrapped altogether from the curriculum. Happily, the men who think
on these lines are very few in number.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is in many ways a model
for Technological Institutes, expects every student to take some lectures on English
Literature, and one or more foreign languages and some Fine Arts: and one
distinguished President of the same Institute declared that the ‘ Institute trains
for life and for citizenship, as well as for a career. Its teaching staff seeks to
cultivate in each student a strong character, high ideals, as well as a keen intellect.’
These words are signiﬁcant.
Such a training given to the students of Technology will help in the creation
of fully developed personalities, with all their faculties experiencing an all—round
development. They will be beneﬁted immensely by a working knowledge of
various branches of study not coming under their ﬁeld of specialisation. The
professional man (it has to be remembered) is not merely a component of
the machinery of a large workshop or factory. In the practice of his profession,
he has to deal with quite a number of human beings. Human reactions, feelings
and imagination are inevitably brought into play. It is clear that if the specialist
in some branch of Science is to make himself socially useful, he should have a good

understanding of the community which he is called upon to serve.
Already, society and employers have begun to realise that while specialization is necessary, it Can never be an end in itself. Education does not aim at
merely producing human robots. The specialist should have his vision widened,
and his personality enriched. He will be distinctly the better for a cultured mind
and a developed outlook. The study of psychology, sociology and other social
sciences will be very useful to the engineers by equipping them with a good knowledge of human nature and human relations.
So far, an attempt has been made to show how the study of the Humanities
will be useful to the Technologist, how it will increase his ztrefulners to
the community. Let us remember at the same time that this is only one aspect
of the problem. The study of the Humanities is an end in itself, and will open
out vistas before the specialist, which he would not have dreamt of. The
Delectable Land is always there for him to enter and enjoy. That is why the
study of the Humanities is considered to be one of the intellectual disciplines.
No student’s education will be complete, even in a technological institution,

unless he has learnt to experience at least some of the thrills and joys which
Humanities alone can give.

