GERMAN MEMORIES

by
DR. T. RAMACHANDRAN
Assirtanl Profexsor, Deparlmenl af Metallurgy
Although owing to historical reasons the United Kingdom has been the
Mecca of Indian students and trainees for a long time, there has been, especially
since the last war, a growing tendency on their
part to seek knowledge in the other advanced
countries as well. For reasons of language and
similarity in the educational system the majority
of Indians wishing to attend a University or
a Technical College abroad still prefer the U.K.
or the U.S.A. to other countries. Where specialised practical training is the goal, W. Germany
seems to offer special attractions to the aspiring
engineer and has become an important centre
for the training of Indian engineers and techno—
logists. It is no exaggeration to say that most
Indians, who have had the opportunity to work
in the UK. or elsewhere in Europe, consider
their preparation for a professional career incomplete, unless they put in a spell of work in
German Industry.
The reasons for this are not far to seek : even before the war the words ‘ Made
in Germany ’ mcant much to the Indians. The tremendous creative activity of
the Germans after the most complete destruction imaginable, however, ﬁred the
imagination of the new generation of Indians, whom Destiny marked out to be the

torchbearers of a resurgent India, determined not to remain the despicable dot
that they are on the industrial map of the world. Was not the example of the
Germans, who rose like the Phoenix from the ashes, worthy of emulation P
I do not suggest for a moment that only such ideals motivated my own trip to
Germany. The desire to improve on my training as a foundryman—started in
India, matured in the U.K.—in one of the renowned foundries in W. Germany

was certainly the main aim ; not insigniﬁcant, however, was the role played by a
spirit of adventure, or desire to experience for oneself something of the mood of
a great nation at work in a gigantic way !
The process of getting ﬁxed up in Germany was not without a trace of drama,
only one ﬁrm out of twenty to which I wrote responding even partially positively.

