75
Even that one did not go beyond offering to consider my application at a later date,
when the Indians already with them were expected to depart. All this I learnt,
of course, with the help of a teacher of German at the local school in the small
town in Scotland, where I was working at the time. Soon I learnt to my discomﬁture to look for the three damning words, incidentally also the ﬁrst three words of
German I picked up, thCh were the common theme of all the other nineteen
replies, viz.: leider . . . . . niCht ..... moeglich (unfortunately ...... not
...... possible) ! Most of them had several Indians working with them a]rcady and were committed to train people for the Rourkela plant.
That one-in-twenty chance did ﬁnally work out in my favour, the Bergische
Stahl-Industrie in Remscheid taking me on for an initial period of six months.
I would have been in hot waters if they had not done so, for I had no money to
pay for my passage back to India. An interview with an Indian Firm in London,
coincidentally ﬁxed up at the proper time, helped pay my fare from Scotland to
Utrecht in Holland (the ﬁrm paid return-fare with no questions asked !) where,
meanwhile, I had secured an International Student Exchange Scholarship for two
months. This fellowship suited me ﬁne as I had exactly two months to go before
starting work in Remscheid, which was only three hours’ journey by rail from
Utrecht.
Thus it was purely a combination of circumstances, Fate as one may call it,
that determined the course of my life for several years to come. (Like the man
who came to dinner and stayed on for six months, I lived in W. Germany for nearly
six years though I had planned for only six months !)
In the railway bookshop at Duesseldorf, I armed myself with a copy
of German Without Tail, which has been my constant companion ever since.
I started my Serious study of the German language in the overheated, rather stuffy,
compartment of a fairly antiquated-looking train, the like of which is found in
Germany only rarely. I had not proceeded far, certainly not beyond the ﬁrst
lesson, when I heard someone shouting something of which I clearly heard the
word Remscheid. Believing that I had arrived at my destination, I asked, with
appropriate gestures, one of my co-passengers, with an economy of words rendered necessary by linguistic ignorance, ‘ Remscheid ? ’, to which he replied ‘ Ja.
. . . . . Remscheid..... ’ This was conﬁrmation enough for me, though
the gentleman gesticulated to me still and tried to tell me something more. I
was now on the platform and the train began pulling out of the station which was
rather badly lit and looked very deserted. I looked frantically for my luggage
from the brake-van, Haunting my baggage ticket but nothing was to be seen.
Finally I did manage to convey my problem to the Station Master with the help
of gestures and the baggage ticket. He immediately took up the telephone and
conversed with someone somewhere, and then proceeded with success to make me
understand that I had alighted at an unimportant station at the end of Remscheid,
6

