76
and that another train in an hour’s time would take me to the main station.
luggage would be perfectly safe and would be awaiting me there !

My

As accommodation had been arranged by my employers I had absolutely
no difficulty in that score. Conversing with the landlady, however, was a major
problem as her knowledge of English was considerably less than mine of German,
and my acquaintance with the Teutonic tongue consisted largely of half a lesson
in German Without Tail! You can then imagine my relief when it turned out
that the other occupant of the two-room ﬂat and employee of the local Post Ofﬁce
knew some English as a result of association with the occupation forces after the
war ! After a month or so he was posted elsewhere and in his place came a veritable master of the English language. Both this gentleman and his ﬁancée, now
his wife, had worked for the British after the war and had a rare command of
English. There soon developed a conﬂict of interests as he would come to my
room in the evenings to practise his English with me, while I was busy learning
German from my book. I must say I greatly resented his intrusion at the time,
and more than that, his well-meant insistence on the use of English. I told him
then of my desperate need to learn German, and we soon became good friends and
learnt to live together in harmony and to our mutual beneﬁt. We left the ﬂat,
for diﬂerent reasons, after about six months, but kept in touch with each other.
It took me only a few days in Germany to learn an important difference between the British and the Germans, namely, the much more ‘ open ’ nature of the
latter. In Britain I had the advantage of the common bond of language and
felt perfectly at home, in a way. I got on very well with my co-students and later
with my colleagues of all ranks, but the relationship was mostly conﬁned to the
college or the hostel or the factory. I was very rarely invited by my friends to
their homes, and there was always some sort of a barrier. Within a week or two of
my stay in Remscheid, however, I had been invited to more homes than in my
three years in Britain ! And this was not some make-believe invitation to assess
the strangeness of a foreigner. After more than ﬁve years in Germany, I was still
very much at home in all these places. The contrast was very real and, coming
immediately after my experience of Britain, was particularly striking.
In the factory too I was looked after well right from the ﬁrst day. A young
German engineer who knew excellent English was entrusted with the task of helping me ﬁnd my feet and he it was, who guided me through all the routine
procedure of the ﬁrst day of work. Permission had to be taken from the Trade
Union representative before any new appointment (yes, in ‘ capitalist ’ W.
Germany 1), other formalities like informing the administration about my joining
duty, registration with the police, application for a working permit and so on had
to be gone through. Without this help all this would have been very difﬁcult
for me. (He and his wife were a great help to me throughout my stay in Germany,
and I learnt to appreciate their constant friendship and hospitality). What I

