77
still vividly remember of that day is the look of utter disbelief on the face of the
office-girl at the police ofﬁce when she took down my father’s name and found
that our names had nothing in common !
My ﬁrst assignment was to assist two students doing thesis work for their
ﬁrst degree. In return they were to teach me German and generally help me get
settled down. Some sort of a friction developed between me and one of them,
particularly when he repeatedly requested me to carry empty milk bottles (after
we had all consumed huge quantities of milk) upstairs from the laboratory, which
had been rigged up in a cellar in the foundry. In the beginning I thought every
one would take his turn, but this failed to materialise. As a graduate of some
years’ standing (I) I was a little offended, so I refused to do it any longer, except
strictly on a duty-sharing basis. He saw the point, and we got on fairly well
thereafter. We soon made up a foursome for Bridge and had quite a few jolly
evenings, even though I left them after a couple of months and started moving
about the foundry to learn the art and technique of steel melting and casting.
One incident that stands out in my mind is my learning, by experience, how
to get on well with German workmen. (Of course, I do not mean that it does
not work with others !) The ﬁrst melts of metal for my work had been got ready
and instructions had already been given to the Workshop attached to the Labo—
ratory to machine the test-pieces required. But even after two months no test
piece came, and my repeated visits to the small workshop revealed no attempt
to start work on my material. The workshop foreman (Meister) would explain
to me how much work he had, which was all connected with production control
and so took precedence over other types of work. But I noticed that as soon as
I entered there would proceed from all the machinists some sort of a choking
sound and the word Durst (thirst). I had not been long enough in Germany
to understand the signiﬁcance of this general manifestation of extreme thirst.
Soon, however, someone in the Laboratory put me wise on this, and all I had
to do was to press a ﬁve-mark note into a collection box kept for the purpose
in the Workshop. Towards closing time that day I was summoned to the
presence of the foreman and, with Schnaps—glass in hand, he wished me all success in my work ! This was important, for, from then on I never had any difﬁculty with test-pieces and other materials. I had only to indicate what I wanted
and when I would like to have it. I started to enjoy the joke, and we used to
have occasional thirst-quenching sessions in the small workshop !
Being rather familiar with the British foundry industry, I was struck by the
large number of highly qualiﬁed engineers employed by the Bergische StahlIndustrie. Later I discovered that this was the case with all industries in
Germany. Whereas, at that time at any rate, the majority of management posts
in England in the Iron and Steel and kindred industries were held by persons
without any formal academic training, but who had reached the top by dint of

