78
hard work, most of the persons in such posts in Germany had either been to a
Technical University or to a College imparting a more practical type of education. It is difﬁcult to say categorically which system works better, as both
England and Germany seem to be doing quite well though I feel that the German
industry has produced more new ideas in the form of new materials and processes.
One result of the presence of a large number of academically trained people in
the German industry is that a lot of experimentation goes on, even, so to say,

on the shop—ﬂoor. They seem to have realised in England too that a University
man is more likely to bring in new ideas and try out innovations, and serious
attempts are being made to attract such men to take up posts in the practical
ﬁeld, as distinguished from the purely design and research positions.
Research and development play a very important role in German industry
and most of the medium-sized and all the large units have their own research
laboratories, often combined with their control units.

A large amount of original

work is done, often of a fundamental nature, and quite often the results are then
tried out for validity in large-scale operations. There is complete interchangeability of research personnel in industrial laboratories and academic institutionsY
and often there is active co-operation between them. Most of the professors in
the technical ﬁeld do consultation work (I understand that the Universities or
the concerned ministries never interfere in this; nor do they demand a portion
of the consultation fees !) for the industry and are thus in active contact with
industrial problems. Many of the heads of industrial research laboratories are
invited to lecture at Universities on topics not always covered by formal lectures,
and those among them who satisfy certain University requirements are appointed
honorary professors.

The ﬁrms, no less than the recipients themselves, consider

this a great honour and offer every encouragement to such people.
The possibility of earning a Doctorate degree for research carried out in a
Works laboratory is a great spur for such activity in these places. Generally
speaking, a laboratory having a Professor or a University lecturer as its head
always goes in for Doctorate work. In special though rare cases, other persons
of outstanding ability may also be allowed to guide such work. In any case
close co-operation with the Professor at the University where the thesis has
ultimately to be submitted is essential. A peculiarity of much of this type of
work is that laboratory-scale experiments of a fundamental nature are correlated
to results obtained in actual practice. Where some special equipment required
for a particular investigation is not available in a Works laboratory, the candidate
may be deputed to one of the Max-Planck-Institutes or a University institute.
Thus I spent nearly a year at the Max-Planck-Institute for Research in Ferrous
Metallurgy in Duesseldorf on deputation, and there was never any hesitation on
the part of the ﬁrm to pay all the connected expenses. Often, as in my case,
the work is treated as part of the normal programme of the Institute and is not
charged, but in such cases the results are published as a joint communication

