79
from the ﬁrm concerned and the co-operating Institute. This arrangement works
out wonderfully as it leads to full utilisation of the facilities available at both
places and helps in avoiding all unnecessary duplication of costly and specialised
apparatus. The example of the Bergische Stahl-Industrie, employing about
3000 people, is an indication of the extent of work done in industrial laboratories ;
during the years 1950-1960 some six persons completed the work towards their
Doctorates; a dozen or more substantial pieces of research work, each consisting of full-time work for 6-9 months, were completed in part fulﬁlment of the
requirements for the Diplom-Ingenieur examination (the equivalent of a M.Tech.
degree); several other investigations of practical importance were carried out
by students as part of their curricular assignments ; all this, of course, in addition
to the various studies conducted as part of the quality control programme or to
investigate particular failures.
As regards the actual working of the factories or in the working conditions
there is not much to choose between the best of Germany and the best in Britain.
Workers’ participation in management is particularly well-developed in Germany
and there is a union representative (or more than one, as the case may be) permanently assisting and sometimes advisingthe Management on all matters of policy
and control that affect workers in any way. Of course the Trade Union representatives often complain that the ﬁgure of production and proﬁts revealed to them
are not often the actual ones, but this suspicion may be a hang-over from the
days of antagonism between Labour and Management. On the whole the relations between the employers and employees seem to be very good, and one doesn’t
ﬁnd in Germany the obvious clash of interests and the almost open hostility
between the two groups that one senses in Britain.
One aspect of industrial management in Germany worth mentioning is
perhaps the composition of the Boards of Directors. Generally speaking, there
is equal representation for technical and non-technical people, the latter usually
lawyers or economists. This well-balanced set-up ensures on the one hand, as
one Technical Director of a ﬁrm (himself a professor) put it, that economically
non-feasible ﬂights of his fancy are checked in time by the hard-headed economists, but that on the other hand, technical improvements are not completely
hamstrung by the lack of engineering vision on the part of the non-technical
Directors, who, as a rule, seem to have the ﬁnal say anyway. I must also point
out that even the non-technical members of the Board acquire an amazing knowledge of the Industry they manage, mostly owing to long apprenticeship and
association, as they generally ‘ grow up ’ in the ﬁrm.
I have only tried to touch upon a few random points that struck me particularly during the time I spent in the German Industry. I have no claim to
any specialised knowledge on all aspects of German Industry and many of my

