EARLY GERMAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO INDOLOGY

by
DR. N. KLEIN
Professor of German
Whenever a conversation turns to the subject of the history of German
Indology, especially to that of its beginnings, it invariably is the name of one
man that is mentioned ﬁrst, that of Friedrich
Max Mueller whom India has honoured by
Sanskritizing his name into Moksha Mular.
Often it is even claimed that he was the founder
of, at least, German Indology.
Far from intending to belittle Friedrich
Max Mueller's contributions to Indology which
will be mentioned in due course, I am afraid
this myth has to be destroyed if a true account
of the beginnings of German Indology—even as
a scientiﬁc discipline—is endeavoured, for the
year Friedrich Max Mueller was born, the ﬁrst
German university chair for Sanskrit at Bonn
was already ﬁve years old.
The question, however, is whether or not it is correct to date German
Indology only from its becoming a scientiﬁc discipline, i.e., from the day the
ﬁrst regular chair for Sanskrit was established. According to a lexicographical
deﬁnition, Indology is ‘a branch of arts dealing with India, her archaeology,
history, culture, art, literature, philosophy, religions, and languages.’ If we
stick to this deﬁnition—and there is no reason why we shouldn’t—it seems only
proper to consider any work on any of the subjects mentioned part of early
Indology provided, of course, it has a scientiﬁc approach. This may even include books of travels. It may, but it mustn‘t, as publications especially of
the last ﬁfteen years have shown which not only lack a scientiﬁc approach but
quite obviously any serious approach whatsoever. However, it is, for instance,
surprising what German oﬂicers and soldiers in the service of the Dutch East
India Company observed, noted down and brought back to Germany from
their travels to India, in particular to the Malabar coast These reports written
between 1602 and 1797, have, fortunately, been collected and published in thirteen volumes along with those on travels to other Eastern countries and to the
West Indies (‘ Reirebeschreibungen van deutrchen Beamten und Kriegsleuten
{m Diem! der Niederlaendischen West-14nd Ostindischen Kompam'en 1602-1797 ’,
Huag 1930-32).

