82
In 1651, a most remarkable book was published at Leyden (Holland),
De Open-Dem? rot het verbmgen Heydemiom (The Open Door to the Hidden
Heathendom) by the Dutch missionary Abraham Roger who had been working
at a mission north of Madras from about 1630 onwards. In its subtitle, this
book promised to be a ‘true account of the Life and Customs, in particular of
the religion and the worship of the Brahmins at the Coast Chormandel and the
countries thereabout’.

It became, to use a modern term, a bestseller and was

soon translated into several European languages. Its German translation
appeared in 1663 at Nurnberg. What made this work so particularly valuable
was the fact that it contained the ﬁrst translation into a European language of
Indian poetry, of two hundred verses from Bhartrihari’s famous Sula/ear.
Thus Bhartrihari was the ﬁrst Indian poet to become known in Germany.
At about 1650, Father Heinrich Roth (1610-88) who worked for almost
thirty years at Srinagar, Garhwal and Agra, wrote the ﬁrst grammar of the
Sanskrit language. This grammar, composed in Latin, was, however, never
printed, but the manuscript is still extant. He also contributed script plates
in Dcvanagari to Athanasius Kircher’s China Illurtmta published in 1667 at
Amsterdam, a work which also contained a number of illustrations depicting
Hindu deities and scenes from Hindu mythology such as the ‘ Churning of the
Milk Ocean ’. The title ofthis book which in English means ‘ Illustrated China ’,
must not be taken literally. At that time, ‘ China ’ still stood for everything far
to the east of Europe.
Another German missionary, the Jesuit padre Johannes Ernst Hanxleden
who died in 1732, also wrote a Sanskrit grammar besides a ‘ Dirtionarium MalaInm'cum Samscrdamicum Lutitanum ’ (Malayalam—Sanskrit-Portuguese Dictionary). Both works remained unprinted, but their manuscripts preserved at
Rome, formed the main source for two Sanskrit grammars and several indological
treatises published by the Austrian J. Ph. Wesdin in 1790 and 1804, respectively.
Probably the best-known among those Germans who carried out valuable
research work in the ﬁeld of Indology long before this had become a subject
taught at the university, was Bartholomaeus Ziegenbalg, missionary at the Danish
Protestant Mission of Tranquebar about two hundred miles south of Madras
where he died in 1719 at the age of only thirty-six. Although by no means
talented for languages and despite his heavy duties so often seriously and maliciously hampered by the Danish Governor and the head of the Portuguese
Catholic Mission—he was even imprisoned for some time in the dungeon of
Fort Danskeborg—Ziegenbalg through sheer hard work learnt Tamil not only
to be able to translate the New Testament. (The only copy of this translation
I would know of as being extant in India is being preserved at Serampore near
Calcutta) He rather wanted to gain ﬁrst-hand knowledge of what people around

