83
him thought and believed in, he wanted to be able to enter into earnest discussion with them, especially with the Brahmins, as to his mind missionary work
did not simply mean preaching to the people, it rather meant convincing them,
and this he knew he could achieve only, if he understood them properly. And
thus we ﬁnd Ziegenbalg travelling as far as Bangalore, mostly on foot, and stopping
wherever he found an opportunity for discussion. If one of his biographers,
Erich Beyreuther, claims that Ziegenbalg convinced and proselytized each and
everyone he met and spoke to, I am afraid this has to be dismissed as a biased
statement. But it is certain that he achieved a lot more than the majority of
missionaries who come to India, or any other non-Christian country for that
matter, blissfully ignorant of its religious and philosophical thinking.
The outcome of Ziegenbalg’s intensive studies and discussions were two
outstanding works, Malabarisches Heidenthum (Malabar Heathendom, [711,
published 1926) and Genealogie tier Malabarixchen Goetter (Genealogy of
Malabar Gods, I713, published at Madras in 1867), the ﬁrst extensive and reliable
descriptions of the religious life and thought of the Hindus to be written in
German. Ziegenbalg may be forgiven for having called Cholamandala (Coromandel) ‘Malabar’, it is a minor shortcoming. Besides these two works, he
was the author of a Grammatz'ca Damult'ca (Tamil Grammar, 1716) and a
Bibh'atheca Malaburica, a collection of Tamil (not Malayalam !) texts (I708).
The ﬁrst systematic book on the history and geography of India was
published as early as 1785 by a priest from Southern Tyrol, Father Joseph
Tieffenthaler. This work entitled Historisch-geogmphixche Betchreibung van
Hindustan (Historic-geographical Description of Hindustan) contains a list of
names of Indian kings and of twenty-three different areas in India presenting
for the ﬁrst time a fairly detailed and, above all, authentic account of parts of that
country which then lived in the imagination of many Europeans as something
coming straight from a fairy-tale, an impression which still lingers with some
people.
Apart from those mentioned above, there were many missionaries who lived
in India before the 19th century and who published their experiences and obser—
vations, even busied themselves with the languages and religions of India.
Unfortunately, most of their works have fallen to oblivion. I am certain, it
would not only be an interesting, but a deﬁnitely valuable contribution to the
study of the history of German Indology, if someone took the trouble to excavate,
collect and publish these early works which cannot simply be dismissed as
laymen’s work. Sometimes, a layman’s on-the—spot observation is more accurate
and revealing than a professional’s learned interpretations of thousands of miles
away from the country concerned.
How deep the interest in Indian culture must have been already as early
as the 17th century, may be taken from a few extracts of a letter by the German

