84
poet Friedrich von Spec (1591—1635) who, in 1617, sent the following application to the General of the Jesuit Order begging to be sent to India :
‘I have long been consumed by a secret ﬁre, almost from my cradle.
In spite of all attempts to suffocate the ﬂame, it has always burst out anew,
for India has seared my soul. I was never free from longing for India, even
as a boy at play. My parents tried to divert my attention, but in time they
had to give up. This alone and nothing else was why I desired to enter the
Society of Jesus.
‘ For the moment I was silent, but I have never lost sight of my goal.

Recently a letter from Your Reverence was read out and my heart was once
more consumed with longing for India. Could I help opening my heart to
Your Reverence ? . . . ’
The second Sanskrit text to be translated into German was—one is tempted
to add: of course—Kalidasa’s Sakunfala.

The German scientist and ethno-

logist Georg Forster (1754-94) rendered it in German prose in 1791. When
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832) read this certainly most beautiful
work of Indian literature in Forster’s translation, he was stirred so deeply that

he dedicated the following enthusiastic epigram to it :
‘ Will ich die Blumen des fruehen, die Fruechte des spaeteren Jahres,
‘ Will ieh, was reizt und entzueekt, will ich, was saettigt und naehrt,
‘ Will ich den Himmel, die Erde in einem Namen begreifen,
‘ Ncnn' ich, Sakontala, dich, und so ist alles gesagt.’

‘ Is it the blossoms of the early, the fruit of the later year,
‘ Is it what charms and delights, is it what satiates and nourishes,
‘ Is it heaven, is it the earth I want to comprehend with one name,
‘ I name, Sakontala, thee, and then all is said.’

In his Anmerkungen und Essays fuer das berxere Verstaendni: ties WestOestlichen Diwan (Notes and Essays for the better Understanding of the West-

East Divan) Goethe writes:
‘ One may recall the most deﬁnite applause which we Germans bestowed
upon such a translation (viz., Forster’s prose translation) of Sakontala (sic l),
and we may well attribute the happiness it has rendered to that general translation.

But now it is time, a translation of the third kind (viz., a translation in

verses) were given to us which would correspond to the various dialects, to the
rhythmical, metrical and prosaic language of the original, and wruld anew make
this poem in all its individuality delightful and vernacular. As there exists a
manuscript of this immortal work in Paris, a German residing there could deserve
well of us by such work,’

