85
In the same essay, Goethe mentions the EngliSh translation of Kalidasa’s
Meghaduta (supposedly that of H. H. Wilson of 1813) which he thinks should
also be rendered in German verses, a task apparently taken up by J. G. L.
Kosegarten, orientalist at Jena University. I must, however, confess that I
have never come across this translation which was perhaps left incomplete. In
fact, the ﬁrst German translation of Meghaduta to be published was that of

Friedrich Max Mueller of 184.7.
Other works of Indian literature became known in Germany at the beginning of the 19th century, among them those ﬁfty Upanixhad: which the Moghul
Prince Mohammed Dara Shikoh had translated into Persian with the help of
Indian pandits, the so~called Oupnekhat, and which, in turn, the Frenchman
Abraham Hyacinthe Anquetil-Duperron (1731-1805) had rendered in Latin in
1795 (published 1801—2). It was in this version that the German philosopher
Arthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860) learnt of the Upanishadic wisdom of India
which had considerable inﬂuence on his philosophical thinking.
Unlike Immanuel Kant (1724-1804.) whose only source of knowledge of
India were books of travels available at that time, and, in particular, unlike
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831) who dismissed India as a country
‘ where there is no true religiosity, morality, right and justice ’, and in whose
mythology and philosophy he found nothing but ‘ unrestrained madness ’, not
to mention other ban mots quite obviously originating from the tales of horror
Spread by the East India Company, Arthur Schopenhauer was deeply interested
in the religious and philosophical thinking of ancient India, adding to his library
whatever publication on this subject he could ﬁnd.
It must, however, be stated—and this is by no means meant as a depreciation—that Schopenhauer’s knowledge of India, of her philosophy or, rather

philosophies, and her religions was rather incomplete, had of necessity to be so,
as only a fraction of what is known today about India was known to the Europe
of Schopenhauer’s age. In fact, indological research then stood only at the
threshold of its discovery of India, a discovery which very much was a haul in a
vast sea of manuscripts. It is, therefore, hardly surprising to ﬁnd occasional
mild absurdities in his interpretation of Indian thought which are, certainly, not
the result of any incapability on his part to grasp the proper meaning of a parti—
cular subject or to understand its position within the development of Indian
thinking, be it Hindu or Buddhist. It was rather the result of the absence of
any systematic description of the evolution of Indian philosophical and religious
thinking which, apart from certain earlier fragmentary treatises, was not available until 1894—thirty—four years after Schopenhauer—’5 death—when Paul
Deussen published the ﬁrst volume of his General History of Philosophy.
Taking these facts into consideration, one no more wonders why Schopenhauer regarded the Upanirhadr as containing the primeval wisdom of man-

