86
kind, at the same time dismissing the Rigveda and Samaveda as making
‘absolutely insipid reading’. ‘for both consist of prayers and rituals which
breathe a rather crude sabaism. There Indra is the chief god who is invoked,
and with him the sun, moon, winds, and ﬁre. Before these in all hymns the
most servile base ﬂatteries are recited besides requests for cows, food, drink and

victory, and sacriﬁces are performed along with them. Sacriﬁce and giving
away of presents to the priests are the only virtues praised.‘ So much of and
about Schopenhauer.
At the beginning of the 19th century, the Bhagavallgita, too, became
known in Germany, although there is no German translation prior to that of Paul
Deussen of 1911. However, Ch. Wilkin’s English translation had been published
as early as 1785, and August Wilhelm von Schlegel brought out a Latin translation in 1823. The appearance of the Gita roused enthusiastic acclaim.
After having read the Sanskrit original, Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767-1835),
then Prussian Minister of State, is reported to have said: ‘I thank God for
having allowed me to live so long as to be able to read this poem ’. And in
1826, he published an essay Ueber die Episode aus dem Mahabharata bekannt
unter dam Namen Bhaga'vadgita (On the Episode from the Mahabharata known
by the Name of Bhagavadgita).
Among those works translated into German during the ﬁrst half of the rgth
century, we ﬁnd one of the most enchanting episodes of Indian literature, Nala
and Damayanti ’, rendered in German verses by the poet Friedrich Rueckert
(1788-1866). The Sanskrit text had also been published by a German, Franz
Bopp (1791-1867), the eminent scholar who brought out the ﬁrst European
edition of the Nalopakhyana in 1819.
Friedrich Rueckert has somewhat fallen to oblivion as a poet. But German
Indology not only remembers him, but regards him as one of the greatest orientalists. Still, we have to giVe an Indian, Dr. Mahadeo Karmarkar, the credit
for having made an exhaustive study in Friedrich Rueckert’s contribution to
German Indology (Friedrich Rueckert and die indische Dithtung, Goettingen

I959)Besides Nala and Damayanti, Friedrich Rueckert who is said to have picked
up Sanskrit within a few weeks, translated into German verses two other episodes
from the Mahabharata, Savitri and Hidimba, and prepared philological translations of Amarusataka, Gitagovinda, Sakuritala and the Atharvavea’a as well

as a number of fragmentary translations of several works of classical Sanskrit
literature.
It must be admitted that what has been said so far on the beginnings of
German Indology, looks like stray efforts, like the outcome of the personal in-

