87
tercst of only a few which, indeed, it was in the earliest stage, lacking the systematic approach which would make it an attempt to establish a new ﬁeld of research. Justiﬁed as this impression may seem, it is wrong. The interest in the
literature, philosophy and religions of India did not only exist with a few missionaries and poets but also with linguists who soon began to do systematic
research in Sanskrit and to study the philosophy and the religions of India as
they found them expounded in the texts known at that time. Naturally, an overall picture of Indian thought could not be gained overnight. It required decades
to acquire at least a fair knowledge covering all aspects, and we should be honest
enough to admit that we still don’t know everything and quite probably never
will.
It, certainly, was not merely by chance that the beginnings of German
Indology as a scientiﬁc discipline coincided with the Romantic Period of the ﬁrst
half of the 19th century. The Romantic Movement was characterized by a
hitherto unparalleled intuitive understanding for and insight in the spirit of other
Cultures. It was the time of the brothers Jakob Grimm (1785-1863) and Wilhelm
Grimm (1786-1859), famous collectors of German fairy—tales, of Wilhelm von
Humboldt(1767-1835) and Alexander von Humboldt (1769-1859), of Friedrich von
Schlegel (1772—1829) and August Wilhelm von Schlegel (1767—1845). In 1802,
Friedrich von Schlegel began to study Sanskrit under the only person on the European continent who, at that time, had a thorough knowledge of this language,
Alexander Hamilton, a British Navy ofﬁcer who was held prisoner-of-war at
Paris.

Six years after his sojourn at Paris, Friedrich von Schlegel published

his important book Ueber die Sprache und Weisheit der Indier (On the Language and Wisdom of the Indians) which, giving a ﬁrst outline of the study of
Sanskrit, became a pioneer work of German Indology.
\Vhat is generally unknown is the fact that much of what Friedrich von
Schlegel wrote about the ‘ wisdom of the Indians ’, is based on studies made by
the eldest of the Schlegel brothers, Karl August von Schlegel, Lieutenant of
His Majesty‘s 14th Hanoverian Regiment who died at Madras in 1789 and lies
buried in St. Mary's Cemetery,
Friedrich von Schlegel’s example inspired his brother August Wilhelm to
make a comprehensive study in Sanskrit. He became the ﬁrst German Professor of Sanskrit when, in 1818, he was appointed to the ﬁrst indological chair
at Bonn University known since then by the nickname ‘ German Benares ’.
In 1816, the linguist Franz Bopp published a book entitled Ueber (1a: Conjugations-Syrter/l der Sanskrz'ta-Spmche in Vergleichung mi! jenem der grie(hirrlzcn, lateiuirchen, per-sixth”; und germanirchen Sprache (On the Conjugational System of the Sanskrit Language in Comparison with that of the
Greek, Latin, Persian and Germanic Language) making Sanskrit the centre and

