88
fundament of any comparative research in Indo—European languages. Franz
Bopp had been studying Sanskrit manuscripts since 1812 in London as well
as in Paris where he was guided by Alexander Hamilton, the learned P.O.W.
In 1827, Bopp published his ﬁrst critical grammar of the Sanskrit Language
(Ausfuehrlz'cher Lehrgebaeua'e der Sanskrita—Sprache) an abbreviated version of
which appeared in 1834.
Between 1833 and 1852, Franz Bopp published his second important
work, Vergleithende G'rammatz'k des Sanskrit, Zend, Griethz'rchen, Latez'm'sthen,
Lithauischen, Gothischen und Deutschen (Comparative Grammar of Sanskrit,
Zend, Greek, Latin, Lithuanian, Gothic and German).

With these two works, Franz Bopp actually laid the foundation-stone of
two scientiﬁc disciplines, of Comparative Linguistics and of the linguistic aspect
of Indology without which a proper interpretation and critical edition of any text
would have been and still is quite impossible.
Beginning with Friedrich von Schlegel’s book On the Language and
Wisdom of the Indians, a large number of works on the religions, the philosophy
and poetry of India were published in Germany, many Sanskrit texts were
critically edited and translated some of which have already been mentioned. It
is difﬁcult for us today to realize the sensation these publications created at that
time. Till then the knowledge of the West about the Orient had been gained
from the Bible and about India in particular from Greek and Roman sources,
the famous but, nevertheless, half forgotten Classical Accounts of India now, at

last, available again thanks to Dr. R. C. Majumdar. The author remembers
that not too long ago the Indological Seminar of a German university was happy
to have hunted out a fragmentary edition of Megasthenes’ anyway fragmentary
account.

With the publication of those indological works the horizon began to expand
considerably revealing a highly developed, rich culture with its own literature
and philosophy. India's Hitopadera stood side by side with the Greek fables
of Esop, Manu’s Law: provided evidence of the elaborate legal system of the
Hindus, and the religious—cam-philosophical poetry of the Bhagavadgita was
a match to the epics of the classical ages of the West, not to mention
the Upam‘rhadr and their philosophy presented in such simple yet powerful language.
We can very well understand the zeal and enthusiasm of those early indolegists to whom a seemingly boundless ﬁeld of research began to open. And we
today even envy them, for the times of the great discoveries are over, Indology,
like any other discipline has lost the drive of its early days, necessarily had to lose
it, and has settled down to a meticulous study of details certainly equally important.

