39
Though Bonn University had become the ﬁrst seat of indological learning
in Germany, it did not remain the only one for long. In quick succession, most
of the other German universities opened a separate Department of Indology as,
for instance, the University of Erlangen where the poet Friedrich Rueckert taught
oriental languages, or that of Berlin whose Chair for Oriental Languages and
General Linguistics was held by Franz Bopp. In fact, very soon a university
without a chair for indology was looked upon as lacking an essential ﬁeld of learning, a view which still lingers.
It will not be possible to give a complete list of all early German indologists
and their works, not only because it would ﬁll page after page, but also because
conveying such encyclopaedic knowledge can hardly be the meaning of a brief
account like this. A few names, however, should be mentioned in order to draw
an admittedly rather sketchy outline of the further development of early German
Indology.
Of course, the ﬁrst name that springs to one’s mind (after having been suppressed for so long) is that of Friedrich Max Mueller (1823-1900) who, though
not the founder of German Indology, at least introduced German linguistics to
England. Professor at Oxford University, he is famous all over the World for
his critical edition of the Rigoeda along with Sayana’s commentary which was
published in six volumes at the expense of the (ever controversial) East India
Company. He is also known as the editor of the ﬁfty volumes of the Sacred
Books of the East, a most valuable collection of documents of the high religions
of Asia in English translation. Out of print for decades, they are being reprinted
now, a fact which not only specialists will welcome.
Even before Friedrich Max Mueller had completed the last volume of his
edition, Theodor Aufrecht (1822-1907), the compilator of Catalogus Catalogorum, the master catalogue of Indian manuscripts, had edited the text of the
Rigoeda in Roman characters, and very soon the ﬁrst complete German translation of the hymns appeared, that of Alfred Ludwig (1832-1912). The German
employed in this translation, however, is so peculiar that this pioneer work can
hardly be appreciated any more.
A task equal in importance to that of Friedrich Max Mueller’s edition of the
Rzgveda was the compilation of the St. Peterxburg Dictionary by Otto von
Boehtlingk (1815-1904) and Rudolf von Roth (1821-95), later on supplemented
by Richard Schmidt, a work just as important for the study of Sanskrit as the
Webster or Oxford is for that of English. Boehtlingk also edited Panini’s Ashtadhyayi, the famous ‘ Eight Chapters of Grammatical Rules’, the grammatical
codex, as it were, of classical Sanskrit.
A ﬁrst extensive study in and description of the six classical systems of
Indian philosophy as well as of the philosophy of the Buddhists and Jainas is

