9|

Enough of names, of men and works. Those who are familiar with the
history of German Indology, may regret that so many have been left out, those
who are not, may feel that far too many have already been mentioned. Interest—
ing though it may be to trace the further development and growth of German
lndology, to show how the interest and work in a particular ﬁeld of research was
handed down from teacher to student and again to student, this is hardly the
place for it. The intention behind the short list of indologists and their works
given above was merely to illustrate how German Indology grew out of the
stray eﬂorts of its early days picking up a subject here and there, to the immense
ﬁeld of research and learning covered by the Compendium comprising practically every aspect of ancient India.
Indnlogy, not only that of Germany but Indology1n general has often been
reproaehed with having lost interest in many a subject since the time of the
Compendium. It is true that the average indologist, at least in Germany,
has next to no knowledge of, for instance, ancient Indian mathematics or law.
This, however, is not a case of interest lost. One must never forget that Indology
started as and still is a branch of linguistics primarily concerned with the languages of India and their literature be it philosophical, religious, epic, dramatic
or lyrical. Research in the ﬁeld of ancient Indian law, however, requires a double
talent: the zeal to study Sanskrit and the patience to worm one’s way through
legal matter. And the same is true of ancient Indian medicine, for what does
the average linguist know of medicine ?
Such double talents, fortunately, exist, and we have every right to hope that
they will continue research in those ﬁelds of Indology for which Georg Buehler’s
Compendium of Indo—.4rianPhilology and Archaeology laidthefoundation but which,
of necessity, had to be rather neglected ever since. In fact, the ‘ South-Asia
Institute' of Heidelberg University was founded a few years back with the
express intention of providing facilities for studying such indological subjects
as the average indologist simply has to neglect.
The beginnings of German Indology may date back to as early as the 17th
century, if not earlier, but the adventure of discovering India is not over. On
the contrary, it seems there is a new beginning, and this may prove to be just as
exciting and just as fruitful as the ﬁrst.

