MY IMPRESSIONS OF SOUTH INDIA
by
CHARLOTTE KOCH
To start with the main impression : life in India is more natural than that
in Europe at present. The environments in daily life are not such artiﬁcial and
mechanical ones. This relates not only to the
daily life, but also to the spiritual life. In daily
life, you will depend here more on human beings
than on technical devices. That means, life is
not so much company with things as with
persons.

Therefore, here, it is easier to remain

feeling a human being. Also, your inner life is
not so much inﬂuenced by the so—called achieve—
ments of modern life like the television and a
perpetual ﬂood of printed papers, ﬁlling up your
brain with a lot of unnecessary impressions which
prevent you from really observing and thinking.
Your spiritual life is guided by the inﬂuences of a
natural environment and by the exchange of
ideas with interested human counterparts. To
some extent, this type of life resembles the past
patriarchal life in Germany before the First World War, mainly in rural areas
and in small towns, as I could assimilate it as a child.

To give some of my impressions about the people of South India, I would
like to state that most of these people are more satisﬁed and happier than their
counterparts in Europe. They are living in a very simple way, and if somebody
brings them some help they are always very thankful. During Christmas time I
met at a function a lot of very poor children. They got a small gift, only a cup of
tea, one bun, one orange or banana and a few sweets.

How grateful were those

children, how shining their eyes i For me, it was a very happy event, and I will
never forget it. For these and many other reasons, I like the quite unspoiled
mind and character of the friendly South Indian people. (To prevent misunder—
standing, those are the only ones I know). I have the impression that European
people could learn the art of life and see for themselves the overestimated modern
achievements in the right scale.
A very important thing in India to see the richness of its old culture is the
dressing of women. My own impression is that the saree is the most womanly

