93
dress in the world.

However, only the Indian woman knows how to wear a suret-

and walk in it and with her wonderful black hair she looks beautiful by contrast
to the shiny colours of the sarce. It is very sad to say that most of the European
women have spoiled their hair by a hairdresser, In India all the people
use natural things to take care of their bodies. So, all women will use a natural
oil for their hair and they all wash it by themselves. An Indian lady never goes to
a hairdresser. In our country the fashion will change every three months and
we have to spend a lot of money for all the fancy goods. When Indian women go
to a festival their best decoration are the wonderful natural ﬂowers in the hair.
I like their smell and surpassing beauty on such festive occasions.
One of the most impressive opportunities to get some information about the
essence of Indian life are the dance performances, especially of the South Indian
Bharata Natyam and Kathakali dance. How colourful are these ! However,
it is not merely their innate beauty, much more essential is the harmony of the
co-working artistic, mythological, spiritual, intellectual and physical components
of these dances, represented by the statics and dynamics of a well-trained body,
resulting in a unique aesthetic enjoyment of the spectator. A comparison with
the European dance is unfavourable for the latter because it is more restricted
on the physical and formal artistical side and has not so much spiritual and
intellectual background. Those dancers have tolearn from very early childhood,
about ten years and more to get full control of their body to realise the explained
harmony of the several components of the dance.
Now I would like to say a few words about the South Indian landscape which
is so characteristic in all its varieties.
In the plains about Madras, the palmyra palms dotted over theland and along
the waterfront areas dominate the view in front of the background of the delicate
silhouettes of some distant hills. I feel, they represent the will of Nature to
produce life, even in a desert. Moreover, the shape of these trees makes me feel
gay, contrary to the lonely oaks in meadows in Germany which make the landscape
serious.
When you drive from Madras to Bangalore you can meet at many places,
crude, monstrous blocks of granite rocks. It is nearly the stopped act of Creation,
or perhaps, the playground of giants. It is a very original, brutal landscape giving
us some idea of the elementary power of Creation.
In the hills about Kodaikanal and Ootacamund, you can enjoy the fulsome
miracle of tropical vegetation at a height of two thousand meters whereas in Europe
there is not even one tree or shrub. You have beautiful ﬂowers of all kinds,
Rhododendron trees in full blossom, dense jungles, nice lakes among the hills—
and the beautiful views of the plains, giving us a lurid contrast between the poor
vegetation there and the super-abundance at the heights.

