THE GERMAN STAFF MEMBERS OF I.I.T., MADRAS
H. J. Ebert was born on November 26th, 1931 at Stuttgart. He completed
his school education with an examination similar to Senior Cambridge in 1948,
thereafter serving his apprenticeship as tool—
maker in an instruments and controls factory
for three and a half years passing the ﬁnal examination conducted by the Chamber of Industry
and Commerce, as a skilled toolmaker. He
then worked for two and a half years as special
mechanic for research work in control instruments, for another four and a quarter years as
supervisor and ‘ Meister' (superintendent) of
the apprentice workshop. From 1957 to 1958,
he underwent a course for shopmasters and
obtained the Chamber of Trade Certiﬁcate for
Mechanical Shopmaster (examiner and superintendent of apprentices in mechanics, ﬁne mechanics and toolmakers cadres). In 1959, he worked
for three months as a planner for I.I.T. Madras
on the stall of Prof. Dr. R. A. Kraus at Bonn.
Mr. Ebert, expert staff member, Workshops, joined the Institute on
April 14th, 1959.
Walter Goetz was born on March 4th, 1925 at Bochum. Hailing from a
family who, for two generations, had been blast—furnace and foundrymen, it was
but natural for him to take up the same profes—
sion. He received his apprenticeship in foundry
and moulding practice between 1939 and 1941
in the factory Bochumer Verein of Germany’s
biggest Steel and Iron Foundry, Fried. Krupp
A.G., Essen, completing his training with the
Certiﬁcate as skilled worker. From 194.2 to 194.5,
he served in the German Air Force as a parachuter. From 194.8 to 1950, he received special
training in the Meehanite Iron Foundry Eickhoff
at Bochum and at Bochumer Verein, Fried.
Krupp A.G. At the same time he underwent
a course in iron and steel production at the
State Government Engineering College, Duisburg passing the Final Examination under the
auspices of the Association of German Foundrymen. He then joined the Time and Motion Academy, Comburg passing the
examination in Time and Motion Study, Parts I and II, Foundry Technique.
7A

