IOI

factory in the Public Sector for the manufacture of various types of water-meters,
microscopes, pressure gauges and other precision instruments. This enterprise is considered a pioneer project in the manufacture of precision instruments
in India and, apart from being a Foreign Exchange saver, its annual balancesheets are showing considerable proﬁts. By the end of the second Five-Year
Plan, all skilled workmen, supervisory and engineering staﬂ” were suﬁiciently
trained to run the establishment independently, and Mr. Schroeter joined I.I.T.
Madras on November 1st, 1961.
Dr.—Ing. Siegfried Seinecke was born on July ist, 1932 at Braunschweig.
After passing his School Final Examination at the High School of the Volkswagen
city of \Volfsburg, he, in 1951, entered to
,
,,
Technical University, Braunschweig to study
Electrical Engineering. His practical training he
received in various ﬁrms at Braunschweig and
Hildesheim between 1951 and 1957. In 1957,
he obtained the degree of Diplom-Ingenieur
from the Technical University, Braunschweig.
From 1957 to 1963, he worked as a scientiﬁc
assistant to Prof. F. Kirschstein, Institute of
Telecommunication and High-Frequency Tech—
nology, Technical University, Braunschweig. In
1962, the Faculty of Engineering of the same
University conferred on him the degree of Dr.—
Ingenieur.
Dr. Seinecke, Associate Professor of Electrical
Engineering, joined I. I..T Madras on July 11th,1963 to set up the Laboratory
for Telecommunication and High- Frequency Technology and to lecture on
Telecommunication.
Heinz Sohre was born on July 27th, 1926
atBunzlau in the Eastern part of Germany, now
under Polish administration. From 1934, onwards
he lived in Riesa in Saxony (now E. Germany).
After ﬁnishing High School in 194.2, he entered
an Institute for Electrical Engineering and
received his practical training in the training
centre of one of the biggest steelworks in
Germany which employs about 10,000 people.
In 1944, he was called up for service in the
German Army and saw action in Holland,
Belgium and France. Having been taken prisoner
by a British Army unit, he spent three and a
half years in England as a POW returning to

