Future Sources of Power and Energy
c.

Sivaram.

We are living in an age when science and technology have reachep
an incredibly advanced stage stage such as to enable man to make a
bold bid to venture out into the dark and unknown realms of interplanetary space. The latest developments in the various fields of science
are awe-inspring and point out to the immense possibilities that lie
ahead. On account of these rapid developments in the various fields of
science and technology in this century th~ whole face of our globe has
been considerably altered. Man has created a new picture of himself
as 'Mechanical Man'. He has created instruments and machines
ranging in size from the tiny crystal-size transistor to the gigantic radio
telescopes and the huge atom smashers like the cyclotron. Ever since
the steam engine sparked off'the Industrial Revolution and created the
Machine age, Man has been constantly trying to invent machines to do
most of his work.
Just as man requires muscular energy to do work so also every
machine requires energy in the form of heat or electricity to do work.
At first man used only coal for the purpose. But as more and more
machines were manufactured it became necessary to fiind new sources
of power. Oil in the form of petroleum and coal-gas were then used.
Then ca.me the electric power age. The dynamo was invented.
Machines began to be run more efficiently by using electricity. The
modern electric power system was founded by the invention of the AC
generator and the stearn turbine. Hydroelectric power stations were
Later the
built which used the potential energy of natural waterfalls.
diesel engine became the power source of transport systems.
Man's power needs were never so much as they are today. Today
machines do all the work previously done by man. In other words the
, Age of Automation' has begun in full swing. Every day many new
factories, vehicles, aircraft, mines, computers and many other machines
are being built in every part of the world, particularly in under developed
countries. Moreover we are living in the space-age. Huge, powerful
rockets are being built for exploring outer space. No wonder man
requires an enormous amount of energy to run these machines. At
present we largely depend on natural fuels like coal, oil etc. for our

