4

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

power requirements. But these limitd su?plies of natural fuel are
being consumed at such an alarming rate that it is feared that before
long they will be entirely exhausted. It,has been estimated that the
world consumption of power amounts to something like 5000 milhon
kilowatts per second! This amount is of course rapidly increasing and
keeping pace with the growth of population. So it is quite possible and
even probable that within a century or two at the most, all OUf natural
fuels will be completely exhausted. The phantom of fu~1 famine has
starled haunting man'and his decsendants. Many people look upon
atomic energy for solving the problem. But we must remember that
although nuclear fission is, under excellent control in a reactor, man
has so far only a limited control of the atom. Even if man succeeds in
control ing nuclear fissi.ou completely, the fissionable elements like U-235
or plutonium are not at aLL abundant. Although efforts have been made
in recent years to produce synthetic or artifical fissionable elements like
U-233, it is unlikely that nuclear fission is the final answer to the
power famine. The rare fissionable elements can easily become exhausted. 11 can be estimated that in view of the rapidly Increasmg power
requirements ,.f Mechanical Man the fissionable elemenl~ <-an provide
the nect!ssary energy for only a few centuries. Another possible source
of power is the heat of tlie sun. This is already being used in many
parts of the world in the form of solar cookers and in other appliances
like radios, heaters etc. The heat of the sun is unfortunately so very
diffused that it is very difficult to utilise it economically on a large-scale
What then is the way out of this dilemma and, how can our descendants
be saved from the phantom of fuel and power famine haunting them?
'Nuclear Fusion' says the modem scientist. 'What will be the fuel
used in nuclear fusion T, he is asked. The reply is .. Water!". In
future man will use water as the fuel to run his machines. We will now
explain how this i"s so. Water is of course the most abundant source of
hydrogen or dueterium which are the fuels uS'!d in nuculear fusion. In
the hydrogen bomb, atoms of hydrogen or dueterium fuse under great
heat to form helium. That is the process by which our sun derives most
of its energy. The thermonuclear reactions converting hydrogen into
helium takes place in the centre of the sun at a temp. of 15 million "C.
We are thus trying to copy this process on our earth. One ton of heavy
hydrogen when converted fully into hellum throu'gh nuclear fusion
will yield the enelgy equivalent of 10 million tons of the best coal or
petrol! Unlike nuclear fission . the fuels used in nuclear fu.,ion
are superabundant. Even if Tiih'o of the heavy hydrogen found
in the oceans of the world were used as fuel and even if
the world's power consumption increased 10.000 times then
also the energy released will last mankind for hundreds of millions of
years. Suppose tha~ all the seas and the oceans of the world were filled
with such highly calcrific oil like petrol. Even in that case it is much

