SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER

5

better to have water as fuel because we would be at least 450 times
poorer in latent energy than if we had oil instead of water I
Thus this means that we have found inexhaustible supplies of
"firewocd .. in water. When scientists start burning water efficiently
in thermonuclear electricpower stations the phantom of fuel famine will
stop haunting.man and his descendants.
We have not yet succeeded in controlling nuclear fusion.
The
reason fOi this is that the problems to be faced here are far more difficult than those in nuclear fission, which is under effective control in a
rl'aC10r. One big problem is of course that the te~peratures required
for such reactions to take place is of the order of ~everal million
degrees. It has been estimated that for an effective dueteriurn-helium
reaction a temp of about 300 million degrees is required! How are
such high tem'peratures to be produced? Moreover there is no material
with 'Which \\e can build such a reactor for every kind of material (so
far as is known) turns into vapour at a temperature of only a few
thousand degrees. Recently, great progress has been achived in the
problem cf controlled nuclear fusicn. By means of such ingenious
deVIces like the 'Magm.tic bOUIe' and the' Mirror Machine' temperau res of several mt/lion degrees have been actually produced! The
p.oblem is sure 10 be solved by thc end of this century. Controlled
fusion will bring grl'al m.d exciting possibilities to the whole of manJ...ind. 1t will convert the: dry barren deserts of the Sahara and the cold
freezing de6erts of the Arctic and Antarctic into green smiling fields
bearing huge resenoirs of food grains, so urgently required by a hungry
population. Nuclear fusion will be used in space-ships of the future to
propel them into inter stellar space at almost the speed of light!
Nuclear fusion may one day convert the barren planets of our
Solar System into places where conditions are similar to that of the
earth. This will solve the rroblen-. of accomodating the rapidly increasing population on our all eady ovet(:fcwdcd planet. All this will be
ar;hived by the use of the common substance-water! Controlled nuclear
fusion is all example of the great boon science can be to mankind if
only harnessed for peaceful purposes. Let us hope that man will use
IllS J...nowlecge to create an unlimited source of health, wealth and prosperity to the whole of munkind.

