SRI R. NATARAJAN
-A Tribute
John F. Kennedy Was only twenty-nine when he won his seat in
the United States Congress in January 1947. One mcrning, soon
afterwards, he had occasion to remark: "Some people- got into the
elevator and asked me for the fourth floor!". Six years later, in January
1953, he was elected to the Senate, and the story goes that, when he
first tried to board the quaint little sub-way car that runs between the
Capitol and the Senate Office Building, a guard told him: "Stand back.
Let the Senators go first." These two incidents were an indirect tribute
to Kennedy's extraordinarily youthful appearance. boyish smile, big shock
of hair and gangly frame. Sri R. Natarajan, our Registrar, is known to
have been accosted outside his office by strangers with the remark: "Is
the Registrar in? Can we see him?" And the story goes that at a
meeting of the Board of Governors a new member nudged his neighbour
to ask, "Who is this kid sitting with us?" The factors responsible again
should have been youthful appearance, boyish smile and a big shock of
hair!
Sri Natarajan leaves the Institute after 5} years of close association
with it, to rejoin the Government of Madras and to resume his work in
the Indian Administrative Service. This has been a memorable period
in the life of this Institution. In its !)ylvan setting. with its impressive
material resources, the Institute has the potentiality to become the best
of its kind in the country. At any rate,. its foundation seem!) well and
truly laid. To this achievement, the Institute's first Registrar has made
a distinctive contribution.
Sri Natarajan has set a new pace and given a new meaning to the
role of the Registrar in an institution of this kind. He integrated
himself into the life of the Institute, in a manner, which is unlikely to be
witnessed again. He could not at any time be labelled as a part of the
Administrative Unit or the Academic Unit or the Engineering Unit of
the Institute. His presence pervaded. all of these, and he could reach
across barriers without inhibitions, iron out the difficulties where he
found them, and restore rhythym and coordination in working.
Members of the Academic Staff were welcomed, invariably, with a smile
and often \;,'ltb a liilarious remark, and few of them could leave his
office without a warm feeling of friendship and good-will for the young
man in the Registrar's chair. He struck up a pleasant relationship
with the Wardens and the Assistant Wardens of the Hostels, and the
day-to-day running of the Hostels and their problems were to him
matters of lively personal concern. The student-leaders looked up to
him for a kindly understanding of their problems and he fulfilled their
hopes by the ready improvisation of acceptable remedies in difficult
situations. He brought an infectious enthusiasm to bear on the organi..
zation of all the Gymkhana activities-be it in the sports fields or in the

