!uxm

7

ANNUAL NUMBER

literary and cultural areas. With his prodigious memory for names,
events and personal characteristics, he charmed everyone he came into
contact with, and had the capacity, without appearing ever to say 'no',
to steer people into his OWIl course for a ·good cause. He did all this
unobtrusively and was able to put across a sensitive, pragmatic interpretation of the principles, poI1cies and aspirations for which the
Institute stands and to serve as a bridge of understanding between the
Head of the Institution on the one hand and all its major working
elements on the other.
It is often said that a civil administrator, however able, will be
confounded by the problems of a technological set-up, and only a person
trained in science will be equal to its tasks. Sri Natarajan has shown
how wrong this assumption can be. He has demonstrated that with
robust comm en sense, a sense of dedication and a spirit of give-andtake. a non-scientist can serve a community of scientists and technologists and achieve notable success.
A gift which guaranteed his success from the outset was his sense
of humour. This is considerably strengthened by his facile command
of the English language. The Chairman of the Board of Governors,
Dr. A. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar has l year after year~ at the Institute
Annual Day function, voiced his admiration for these two qualities.
These stand epitomized in his much-Iooked ..forward-to, hilarious,
annual review of men and matters making up the progress of the
Institute. These qualities have been used by him, da} after day, in his
office, in Committee meetings and in the lobbies,' to disarm the most
irate critics and to generate in them good-will and understanding. In
his conversation, the imagery of Cricket predominates. This is as it
should be, because he personifies, by all that he does, the dynamism,
sportsmanship and team-spirit-characteristics for which the game is
justly famous.
In talking about the main thoroughfares of the Institute-Bonn,
Delhi and Madras Avenues--he made the felicitous remark: "I. I. T.
Madras. is a Tale of Three Cities". In the unfolding of this talc.
especially in aa the spade-work that have given, shape and character, to
the Indo-German collaborative eifort, Shri Natarajan has played a
significant role.
There will be genuine regret all round when he will no longer make
his daily trip into the campus in his black 'Fiat' and, with a cheery
'hallo' to everyone he meets on the way, begin his daily round of
activities with the zest of an opening batsman in a cricket match. He
is young, and a long and fruitful official career lies ahead. Wherever
his future assignment may place him. he takes with him the good wishes
of a host of genuine friends at this' Institute. The record of his work
here, the spirit of camaraderie that he fostered, and the cheer and
sunshine that he radiated, will be long remembered with affection and
gratitude by the community that will continue to live and work in this
erstwhile deer.park now known as 1. I. T. Madras.

s. S.

