Nehru-The Champion of Peace
A. N. Narayanaswami

The first death anniversary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru falls on the
27th of May, 1965. That day will bring back memories of the man
who strove for peace, more than anything else.
In the present context of the :World with mounting tensions and
suspicions, universal peace is not only necessary but al')o indispensable.
For if war were to flare up in our age it w.luld spell the total annihilation of the gre.lter 'part of the humm race. Natures and peoples can
only prosper and progress in a climate of peace. To crea.te and foster
such a climate, both at home and abroad, Pandit Nehru laboured
un,ceasingly and perseveringly through the years.
Since tlie dawn of our indepenqence the world situation has been
far from happy. The world today is divided into two rival power
blocs, having diametrically opposed and conflicting political and social
ideologies. Both camps are arming themselves to the teeth, openly and
at times surreptitiously with all the weapons that science can o !fer.
Realising full." the explosive international situation which on different
occasions has erupted openly in different parts of the world, India has
pledged herself to co-ex.istence and non-alignment with either of the
power blocs.
In his Herculean attempts to avert war and foster security~ Pandit
Nehru enunciated the doctrine of Panchashila or five principles for the
promotion of world peace. This doctrine is an extension onto external
affairs, of India's glorious traditions, her history and her philosophy of
tolerance and non-violence. At the outset it was scoffed at and
ridiculed but today there is a growing awareness, even in countries
which are not well disposed to Nards India's attitude in world affairs.
that the role she. has played was thl.! only one she could have, consistent with her own security aud what is more, in the interests of world
peace.
The greatest contribution that Nehru made to international peace
was his do-;:trine of co-existence. He realised early in his career, as
foreign minister, that the only ~way to peace was the lessening of
tensions betweed different countries and establishing gO(ld will and
tolerance between them A gentle and dignified approach. even in
matters where he felt strongly, was adopted by him rather than an
angry and violent approach, with the result that he succeeded where

