S1XTII ANNUAL NUMBlR

9

others failed. This was the Gandhian technique. He iIJustrated it
constantly in his approach to Pakistan. No country could have taxed
his patience more or put his belief in this doctrine more to test, than
this country. With the leaders indulging in anti-Indian propaganda
with perputual border troubles, with the remper of the people raising'
Nehru kept preaching restraint and patience in dealing with Pakistan:
Such a policy somewhat eased the relations between the two countries.
As a corollary to his doctrine of co-existence was his principle of
non-alignment. Alignment with one of the power blocs only incr(ases
tension and conflicts. By being uncommitted a nation creates a
climate of peace and the more a nation is uncommitted, the greater will
be the climate of peace in the world. It was because of this that Nehru
set his face against all m,ilitary pacts and alliances. He refused either
to- be persuaded or coerced into taking sides. He knew, how intense
Indian need was, for foreign exchange and personnel, to change over
from an underdeveloped country to a prosperous one.
Pandit Nehru's service to the cause of international peace and
harmony are very important. He took a leading part, directly or
indirectly in efforts which brought about a cease-fire in Korea and
trp.n in the settlement of Indo"":China problems. He sponsored the
ndmission of a number of countries to the U. N. O. including Red
China. He also tried to bring about a ceasefire in Algjer~ and a
peaceful settlement of India's disputes with Pakistan, China and
France.
A.s a messenger of peace, he visited all the important countries
in the world, building a reservoir of goodwill, understanding and
affection. As a result leading statesmen from all over the world have
come to India on missions of goodwill and co-operation.
There is also another side to the picture. Did his policy secure
that which is essenti~l to the good of India? Relations with Pakistan.
our neighbour to the East and West. continue to be unfriendly. The
continuing trouble over Kashmir has damaged India's reputation in
some parts of the world causing her to be regarded as hypocritical.
The aggressiveness of Red China occupying our border areas, has by no
measure or meaJlS been checked.
Thouah his policies were not too successful, Nehru st.ood as a lone
champion "'of peace in the world_ His only preoccupation was to save
lndia and the rest of the world from war. War could only bring
destruction. He strove very hard for survival, stability and strength
among nations. This alone could usher in an era of peace and plenty.

