The City-Bus Ride
V. S. Kumar
There is nothing I enjoy more than a bus ride. For all its
discomforts it provides such comic relief as you can find in "no other
place. Anyway I do not propose to look at the harrible side, since I
have to bear with it day after day, morning an:l evening. Imagine
living in horror all your life! Instead I look on the bright side and what
a richly hued comedy it presents! When I was a novice, fresh from the
country, what ill-luck I had to get into a city bus! Not conversarlt with
the routes I would rush to.get into every bus that stopped and the
conductor would invariably inform me that I had got into the wrong
bus and put me down at the nex.t stop, to join again the tail end of a
long queue. It got so that I used to feel thankful if the conductor did
not abuse me or ridicule me in front of the snickering audience; if the
cond4ctor kindly issued me the minimum ticket and the correct change.
Next I adopted the technique of asking the conductor, before getting
into the bus, if it would take me to my destination. The answer usually
was either "no" or "I don't know." Another favourite with the conductors was and is "take the next bus:' Another foolish endeavour of
mine was to seek the help of co-bus-catchers. How they used to confuse
me! One would say catch eleven, and another would suggest twenty-five
while yet another would condescendingly tell me that I was at the wrong
bus-stop and should take the first right Jane, reach another main road
and wait at such and such bus-stop at X Cinema theatre! But I am
wiser now. I know which bus-stop to go to catch which bus and where
that bus would take me. I have now learnt the art of getting into the
queue within the queue. I have also acquired the technique of getting
my feet first on to the foot-board and clutching, with all my strength at
the inconvenient hand-rest provided at the entrance. I also know how to
wedge myself between the body of the bus and the barring conductor
and wriggle through inside. I am yet to become proficient at running
with the bus and heaving oneself into it.
However getting into the bus is a problem of the past. I now devote
my full attention to the conductor and also the great art of securing a
seat without appearing to be too aggressive. I have come to know some
great conductors and some great seat-snatchers.
First the conductors :-In them I see alI the humours that were
once attributed to men. I have come across the sanguine, the choleric,
the phlegmatic and the melancholic; broadly speaking. There are the

