SIXrH ANNUAL NUMBER.

11

polite and the impertinent; the loquacious and the sileRt; the jolly one
and the gloomy one; the violent and the meek; the romantic and the
peevish; and of course the fast and the slow. I know one who bristles
with anger and such is his brusque manner, and such the radiation of
his anger that passengers do not argue with him. What more they
positively try to cheer him up, of course, without any success' He
~narls, and snarls especially at the womenfolk, that I wonder why he
doesn't burst a blood vess~l.
There is a sob sister 1 know who harangues the passengers at length
about his woes, until one believes that his is the mo~t miserable lot in
the world. But a few of us have found out that it is only a facade he
puts on, for we have found him living it up and the vely life of jollity
in his off hours'
Then there is the conductor with the profile. He so much resembles a popular star that people go on staring at him. He is, very fortunately, a jolly type and excellent company. Never have I had to bury
my head in a Perry Mason paper-back when I travelled in his bus. He
is so cheerful that he literally contaminates others. Every passenger to
him is a potential source of jokes and his jokes are so irresistible that
even the victim joins in the guffaws. He is so even tempered that it is
is diffi;ult to be angry with him even when he is a bit impudent. To
cap all this he is also musical. Never will you hear the monotonous
whistle in his bus. He is an extremely melodious cuckoo-clock, and
I eagerly await the next bus-stop to catch "his whistle". He literally
whistles his way through his arduous profession.
And now the seat snatchers. These are in a class by themselves.
Here is how you can detect them. They are more often than not very
un-obtrusive and rarely arrest one's attention. They simply slide by
like a slippery eel through a pack of sardines. They have an uncanny
intution that tells them which seat is going to be vacated at the next
stop. Standing ready, they simply fall into the warm seat emptied the
previous moment. Neither a murderous glare nor an appealing eye budge
them from their hard won seats. Their skill is an art and I always respect
art, even while I am being battered between hurrying passengers, like
a punching bag hanging precariously from a slippery leather strap.
I wish these columns allow me further to enlarge on this theme
for I have many more subjects to cover. What about that hardy species
the bus driver in whose hands we deposit our lives for the duration of
the journey? And than there is the garrulous passenger whos':! existence
adds to the misery of the poor commuters. 1 can write volumes on the
passengers who always flourish currtncy notes and never bring correct
change to aid to the duration of the journey by forcin, the conductor

