The Other Hand
Ranjit Puri

The tury of a storm lashed out at a small town in the South of
India. The wind moaned as it tore through the desolate Cypresses; a
thin, cutting drizzle beat against the glass panes of a certain house,
rattling them. Inside the house, everything was solemn and deathly
still. Thc bedroom was the only room from which a faint light could
be seen coming out. In it was a boy, scarcely grown into a man. He
died that night.
They all thought that he died of an illness: his friends, his
parents and even his doctor. But I knew better, oh yes, I knew. For
was it not I' who had murdered him 'l
My ordeal started one warm summer night. 1 was spending the
evening out with a friend. We saw a play and then dined out. We
popped into a soda-fountain before going hom~. We were enjoying
ourselves thoroughly when all of a sudden I felt my right hand turning
cold, and felt as if a whole lot of needles were pricking it. At first I
thought it had "gone to sleep" due to the lack of blood circulation in
it .Then, to my utter horror, I realized that it was irresponsive to' my
. will; I could not use it! It wasn't my hand any more; with a siek
feeling of horror and impotency, I saw it seize my friend's ice-cream
dish and upset the gooey fudge into his lap. There was a painful
silence for a m'),nent, during which the feeling returned to my
hand. Then he jumped up and walked out' very fast, and I went after
him, embarrased trying to sort things out in confused, and inarticulate
sentences Thinking over' 'the incident later and reconstructing the
scene, I realized, much as I wanted to discard the thought, that when
that bizarre feeling came over my band, it acted by correlating my
subconscious thoughts of " ice-cream" and" clothes" (for those were
what 1 was thinking of at that time) and 'acting in some queer way
upon them.
I slept but little' that !light. tossing and turning far into the
uncomforting, small hours of the moming. At the breath of dawn, 1
wheeled my bicycle out with the inlention of going to a doctor,
although even then I knew that no earthly treatment could chase thi~
hideous thing from within me. I cycled furiously, always thinking 6f
picnic, repeating: the word over and over again in my mind, trying not
to think of the doctor, hoping that my apparently t~lepathic hand cJ.id
not anticipate my actions. It was of no use. Apparently,] could not
keep the thought of the doctor from my subconscious. For suddenly

