14

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

I felt sensations similar to those of the night before, felt my right hand
tum the handle-bar of my bicycle so that it pointed towards the road,
with me looking on dumb-founded. It would have been my end had
not the driver of a car jammed his brakes on in the nick of time. I
lived; but why did I not die then, than live a living death and be
doomed to suffer untold misery ?
In the days that followed, every hour seemed an eternity. I dread
to think of those days during wnich I lived in trembling fear; for one
moment I would be a perfectly normal person, the next a dangerous
sadist. I noticed these occurings wer~ becoming more frequent and
more dangerous. I locked myself up in my room. day and night,
sneaking out occasionally for food, lest I should do others greivous
harm. It occured to my hand to take me out and during those ventures,
I did considerable harm to both people as well as thing. Once I
strangled a kitten. How imploring those eyes looked when it strllggled
for the last of its living moments! Then I set fire to a hut. Would I
commit homicide nex.t? I dreaded to think to think of my future. Was
I not a raging maniac in the eyes of all Humanity? Yet no one
caught me.
Then a day came when my unfortunate friend came to inquire
about me. I entertained him normally. ex.cept for the fact that my
nervousness must have struck out like like a sore thumb! I was
absolutely certain then that he would think that I was ill. He would
call a doctor. Should the world known about me? I would never
bear to be treated in a lunatic asylum. Never. These thoughts raced
through my oppressed brain.

I poisoned him.
Or did my hand do it? I read of his postmorten in the papers, of
the startling discovery of the doctor who suspected foul play. The
Police Commissioner, as usual. claimed that they "had a clue, and
hoped to arrest the murderer before long".
As l sit here, a cyanide tablet at my side I think of the. alien.
telepathic thing that hac; pO!isessed me. It will sense the presence of the
poison and kill me as I have killed another. Fair justice, indeed! They'll
come to get me, but by then I would have been murdered by myself!
The law will have to think up a new term for it - quasi-murder would he
a good one.
Even as I feet my hand turnd turning cold, Xhear the harsh sounjs
of a police siren. So quick? Yet I am calm.
Shouts.
Footsteps.
Come quick, Death.

I feel th ......

