Sir Winston Analysed
T. S. Ananthu
Sir Winston Churchill is no more. His name, everybody agrees,
shall go down in History, for he not only wrote history and understood
history, but also created history. But not everyone is agreed on how
and in what form it shall go down-as a champion and defender of
freedom. liberty and democracy or as an imperialist denying freedom to
Britain's colonies. Opinion on this question differs widely. He is
regarded by a grateful British people as the man who steered Britain
through the direst peril of its history. His inspr,ing leadership in
defiance oftot3.litarian Tyranny, there is no doubt, saved Europe from
Fascist domination, and all those who fell or were about to fall a
prey to the Nazi regime shall regard him as one of the greatest
freedom-fighters who saved this world from Hitler's ruthless
dictatorship. But there is the other side of the picture too, and not
all people, particularly those in India and other former British
colonies, will agree that Sir Winston always stood for freedom.
Many in India consider him to be the principal force that refused us
independence for decades. "I have not become the King's first
minister to preside over the liquidation of the British empire" is
still quoted disapprovingly, He was the Derson who called our Father
of the Nation a "naked fakir". And if to Indiaus he seemed a
diehard, so too did he. later, to President Roosevelt.
It is perhaps fitting that, for a man of many parts like Churehillhe was in turn a soldier, journalist, hisiorian, lecturer, author,
statesman, paimer, and politician-there should be a variety of
opinions. too. But Churchill's approach towards various problems is
not that enigmatic and contradictory as it seems on first sight.
A careful analysis will show that Churchill was, all said and done,
basically a dogmatic conservative with an aptitude for fighting. This
analysis may seem rather odd at first reading-particularly to tho'ie
who have confined their attention to his exploits in defence of freedom
and have ignored his attitude towards the c01onies. But a careful
analysis of his life history will show that each and everyone of his
thoughts, and actions can be very easily explained if we assume that his
two basic instincts were dogmatic conservatism and the fighting
spirit. Let us examine each of these of these factors, and how they
affected his thoughts and controlled his actions.
Churchill's association with the Conservative-except for his short
honeymoon with the Liberali> when in the early part of this century, he
sat in the Tory benches throughout his long Parliamentary

