SIX11l ANNUAL NUMBER

17

life of our 60 years-is in itself symbolic of his basic love for
Conservatism. In fact, curiously enough, his love for freedom and
democracy can also be accounted for on the basis of his
conservatism. The British, for centuries, have cherished democracy
and Sir winston, born and bred up in such an atmosphere, also fell in
love with democracy on account of his conservatism. extreme
conservatism, however, took him farther. He belived, as every true
conservative does, that the state of affairs in Great Britain was the best'
and must be conserved, Hence his advocation of the supremacy of the
Br!tish parliamentary system over other types of democracy, e. g.,
the American Presidential system. In fact, it was his conservatism that
prevented him from acknowledging that British democracy could
survive without the seemingly redundant post of the Monarch.
It may be mentioned in this context that, while Sir Winston was
a champion of democracy, he was one of aristocracy too. And the
atmosphere in which he was brought up-an atmosphere he wanted to
preserve-was definitely aristocratic. In short, that most of his ideas
and beliefs emanated from his conservatiam,
Churchill's conservatism was essentially dogmatic. This was
strikingly. if incongruously, projected in his stubborn attachment to the
concept of imperialism, particularly in its relation to India, when it
was c1ea£ to many others, including a majority of his Tory colleagues,.
that the concept was outdated. In certain situations he was, as
Asquith once described him. a genius without judgement. He just
could not understand why people wanted changein any existing situation.
Britain was a free country, and Sir Winston wanted to conserve the
freedom But India was not a free country, and he saw ]"10 reason
what'ioever why Indians should be given freedom. Even in Britain
itself. Churchill has bee.n described-by no less a man than Aneurin
Bevan as "Petrified adolescence". He was against practically every
reform, against the suffragist movement, against political reforms for
India, against Labour legislation.
But a description of Sir Winston's personality remains thoroughly
incomplete if it does not mention the excellent fighting spirits that he
possessed. Scores of Conservatives have come and gone in this world,
but who has made an impact as deep as Chufl.:hill's? What is it that
makes Churchill stllnd out among all diehard Conservatives?
Undoudtedly. his fighting spirit. Churchill's vibrant, turbulent
imagination tended to see most things in terms of battle and
instinctively rose to the challenge. In that sense his life was a
battlefield, or, more accurately, a succession of battlefields. It is
perhaps this instinct to fight that prompted his entry into the Armed
Forces early in his life. His fighting qualities .were well demonstrated

