18

INDIAN INSTlTUT8 OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

in his adventures as a soldier-cum-war correspondent in Africa and
India. But his career as a soldier was distinguished by a dogmatic
self--confidence which never hesitated its criticism of senior officers.
So he fought with his commanders, and resigned his commission. He
returned home, and was elected an M. P. on a conservative ticket.
But very soon he was at loggerheads with the party leaders, and left
the party. On rejoining it later, he once again became a bitter critic
of the Conservative government from the Conservative benches. When
he was Colonial Secretary, only the tact of a British Commander
prevented a-head on collision with Turkey's Kemal Pasha. And
tin ally, of course, he fought with Hitler. In fact, Churchill's life has
been full of fights, When on quarrel ended, he picked up another.
A beautiful example is his famous speech at Foulton, immediately
after the Second World war, when he denounced his erstwhile ally. the
Soviet Union, and coined the term 'Iron Curtain'. Perhaps the
conflict between the Western Powers and Russia was inevitable, but
Churchill's speech, coming so soon after peace had been established,
was definetly premature. It was instigated by his basic desire to keep
fighting with someone or the other. And not only did he fight
valiantly with human beings, but with Death too. Not once, but on
several occasions, he drove away Death which literallv knocked at
his doors in Teheran in 1943 and at Monte Carlo in 1962. He managed to
keep death at bay for ten days in 1965, too, but the inevitable occurred
on Jan. 24.
Thus we see that each and every fact of Churchill's turbulent,
exciting and thrill - packed life can be ex.plained on the basis of his two
basic qualities-namely, dogmatic conservatism and the fighting spirit.
Perhaps the people who best understood this were the Englishmen
themselves. In this modem, moving, revolutionary world, they
refused for years to accept the conservative. dogmatic Churchill as
their Prime Minister. But when Britain faced its greatest moment of
crisis and national danger, tbey looked almost instinctively to him
for guidance, inspiration and leadership-on account of his third
quality, namely, the fighting spirit. True to his character. be kd them
with the words "We shlill not flag or fail; We shall go on to the end.
We shall fight in France, We shall fight on the seas and oceans ......••
We shall fight in the fields and in tbe streets. We shall never
surrender ........ .'· But once the fight was over, Englishmen knew that
Churchill's services were no longer required. They knew that he was
not the man who could do justice to the changing tides in India and
other colonies. And so they rejected him in the elections that followed
immediately after the Second World war. In fact, Churchill was indeed
very lucky that the war broke out when it did, for otherwise his
political eclipse would have occurred long back, and he would not have
become a legend as he is today.

