SIXTH ANNUA'L NUMBER

21

suggest: "why not", she said, "write on 'Women's Education in
Germany" 1.
In deference to the suggestion of this knowledgeable woman, I am
going to deal wIth this subject.

In Germany legal equality is guaranteed to women in aU sphereaof life. This has been achieved gradually since the middle of the last
century through the intense work that was done by the so-called Woman's Movement. Notwithstanding the devotion of many eminent women
working for the improvement of the women's situation, substantial steps
towards emancipation were made possible by changes in society and
women's positon in it. This change was mainly brought about by the
fast industrialisation. Women were needed more and more as active
participants. The natural consequence of their absorption into the
industrial process was their claim of:

1. Right of education.
2.

rught of work.

3. Right of participation in public life.
At the end of the last century the brighter girls could pass their
matriculation and enter Universities. The right to vote however was
given to them only in 1918, after World War I. Up to that time the
only professions open to unmarried women, who had to earn their living
or simply wanted to do some work, were practically that of a
worker, helper or on a higber level, that of a nurse or teacher. Any
political activity was simply unimaginable.
The demand of these three basic rights gives answer to the question:
'Why education for women at all' ? Now quite a number of persons
(men and women) believed that the only place for a woman was 'her
house, a place that she should keep in the best of all orders and where
she has.to bring up her children and to provide comforts for her husband.
This idea was propagated Wilh vehemence during the National
Socialistic period, the only mistake being that at the end of the war
women had to take up various rather difficult and hard professions,
vacated by the then soldiers.
Naturally, I understand that it may come as a shock to some men
that a number of women may know as much as they do - on certain fields
certainly less - on a few, perhaps more. But any intelligent man must
soon recognise that women will ever interfere if, evrything-be they
educated or not. So don't you think it is better to give them the
chance to understand in what they interfere and how they do it '1

