INDIAN INSTITUTB OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

Starting from the age of 6 or 7, children have to attend primary
school.
8 years of schooling is compulsory for each child-either
completely in primary school or 4 years of primary school and 4 years
of middle or secondary school.
Though during the first three
years af~er the end of primary school it is again compulsory that the
children continue attending classes at least once a week, it has been
generally recognised that a girl of the age of 14 or 15 is mentally and
physically not prepared to enter an apprenticeship or even an earning
labour. In a few parts of our country it has been decided to extend
primary education for one and later two years. However Lacking
sufficient teachers and schools it will take some more years to realise
this idea.
About 80% of the girls leave the school after these 8 years of
primary education. With this basic knowledge they may start either as
unskilled workers or take up an apprenticeship in the various crafts, in
officeworks or as shopgirls. Apprenticeship will take two to three
years and as the girls earn only a small amount during this time, many
of them decide to start earning immediately as unskilled workers. 'They
will get married in any case-why then invest too much in their
education?
As there is a big demand in many spheres of officie work, salesmanship and manufacturing trades (especially for girls) an interested,
intelligent and skillful girl has good scopes. For example steno-dactylos,
shop-assistants, workers for the manufacturing of precision instruments
or watches etc., are mostly women and the lack of young male apprentices is opening new fields for girls in quite a number of crafts and
trades. So, for example, in a barber's shop you may have a shave or
hair-cut done by a (let's hope!) pretty young girl, though lhis was
rather unusual just a few years back. More and more, young men are
prefering to take up industrial jobs, connected with mechanics. The
gaps have to be filled by girls.
At the age of 10 or 11 those girls who intend to do further studies
have to undergo an examination that opens up the possibility of attending an intermediate or secondary school. The aim of the secondary
school is, to lead after 9 years, to the 'Abitur' (Matriculation) and to
provide the .furture University students. Those, who from the beginning
don't think of taking up higher studies - and are not held by social prestige to 'have the Abitur' will chose the intermediate school. In 6 years
it will impart a good all-round knowledge with emphasis on modem
languages and the first grades of the natural sciences. The conclusion of
this scllOol period will open up the possiblity of entering all professions
except those which require academic studies. Many vocational training

