SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER

23

schools will give them further training for social professions, administrative service, scientific assistant work, and so on.
The secondary school that leads to the matriculation (only one
third of those who enter succeed finally) is not a uniform school type.
The types differ in the empahsis either on old languages (Greek and
Lalin) and humanities or on modern languages and mathematics or a
combination of both. that means Latin plus modern languages plus
mathematics. The standard is high and the regulations strict. 14
subjects are compulsory, of which four are main subjects. (Latin,
English, German, Maths and History, Geography, Political Sciences,
Chemistry, Physics, Biology, French, Sports, Handicrafts and Design,
Religion.) Generally there are 6 classes (of 45 minutes) during the
morning (they start at 8 a.m.), while the afternoon is reserved for
extensive homework. The last three years require a good deal of mental
labour (changing in its intensity naturally from case to case). If compared to the Indian College-System: A matriculate has to reach about
the level of a B. A.
No wonder that, with their head full of spberical trigonometry,
irregular Latin verbs and awkward chemical combinations the girl
students can't spare much time for, say, the art of preparing a lunch. I
remember very well, how, during the last years of my school most of
us were fascinated by the miracle of one girl who really was able to
produce an eatable cake and to stitch her dresses! Those who didn't
know that, but knew more about maths, found therein a certain satisfaction. 12 years later the mathematic stars end up as nothing more
than good housewiveo;;, whilst our weak-legged mathematics girl is not
only a good housewife, a smart lady, the mother of two sweet babies,
but also a recognised pediatrist.
Matriculation is completed at the alZe of 19 or 20. The decisive
step for Higher Education is taken. Sarcastic observers may call this
the decisive step for fanging an academically educated husband. A few
will fall to this temptation and choose one. A few will start the
training for a profession that they could have had without matriculation.
A few only, but in any case as much as one fourth of all enrolled students in German Universities, win enter University. The prefered
departments are arts and social sciences, Medicine, pharmacy and
chemistry. natural sciences and economics. Though concentrated in
those fields mainly, you will, however, find at least one girl in evey
remote corner of University education.
The change from the strictly regulated school system to the absolute
freedom of academic education creates some difficulties, especially for

