Marvel From Mangalore
R. Natarajan, I.A..S.

It was the 1960-61 willow session. Richie Benaud and his men
were on the rampage, putting Indian cricketers to the sabre. They
had won the Delhi Test by an innings and the Indian victory at Kanpur
had been dismissed as a freak of result, a flash in the pan-some weird
magic from the pages of an Oriental myth. Davidson and Meckiff,
Benaud and Kline, who had all preyed on English batsmen to perfection in the earlier Fight for the Ashes, were still accepted as invincible,
ogres in the art of bowling. The Australians were determined to avenge
Kanpur at Madras. The stage was, thus, set for the fourth Test at the
Corporation Stadium.
The Aussies made no secret of their intentions. After a match
winning total on a bowler's wicket, they waited for Ramchand & Co.
to take their sorry stance at the wicket, or as they thought, to place
their hapless heads on the guillotine. This did happen. Indian batsmen
floundered against the scorching pace of Davidson and Meckiff and the
wily spin of Benaud and Kline. Wickets tumbled and the Test atmosphere was tense. Standing out from all this dismal debris was
Kunderan-the only Indian bat~man to sound the call of battle and the
din of challenge. He tamed Meckiff and vanquished Davidson. Benaud
too had to doff his hat to Kunderan's blade. His two audacious
knocks of 71 and 33 runs, came out as an invigorating breeze in the sad
and sullen Test atmosphere, reeking with one-sided superiority in
Australia's favour. Kunderan was, overnight, a darling of the crowd.
The lithe, athletic Budhi Kunderan was born at Mangalore on
Oct 2, 1939. After his parents migrated to Bombay more than two
decades ago, the sporting life of the metropolis took a happy hold of
him. Both at Bandra Hi!!b School and Jai Hind College, he distinguished himself in cricket, foot ball, athletics and boxing. He captained
the West Schools team in the Cooch-Behar trophy and represented
Bombay University in the Rohinton Baria tournament. Kunderan was
also lucky to have the benefit of Cricket coaching under Homi Vajifdar
during his formative year.
But it was not till he joined the Railways that he had his big
break. With his usual, unnerrin~ eye. Amarnath. the Railways coach,
spotted Kunderan as a potential Test Star. He gave him invaluable
batting tips and persuaded him to take .to wicket keeping seriously.

