Quick to spot talent and quicker still to put it to test, Lala Amarnatb,

as the Chairman of the Test Selection Committee included Kunderan in
the third and fourth Test matches against the Australians-with
what electrifying results we enduringly know.
For a matter of wonder, Kunderan had his Ranji Trophy baptism
after his thundering entry into Test Cricket. Though making sizable
scores in Ranji Trophy matches, he was not given too many chances to
play. He played only off and on in the Tests against Ted Dexter's
England. The story was much the same against the West Indians in
the Caribbean. Engineer, a tidy wicket keeper and a useful bat,
managed to keep the spotlight (In himself and be an automatic choice as
Test keeper-till the Madras Test against Mike Smith and his men in
January, 1964.
It is curious to reflect how accidents play so prominent a part in
moulding the destinies of individuals or for that matter, nations. If
there was one man determined to take the tide at the flood and lead
himself and his team to fortune on that cool January marning of the
opening day of the Madras Test, it was Kunderan. When Engineer
could not play owing to indisposition, Kunderan promptly took his
place and opened the 1ndian innings with Vijay Mehra. Prophets of
doom, settling down snugly on their seats with packets of popcorn,
freely forecast that Lightning Larter and the Essex Knight would soon
pulverise Kunderan. But it was Kunderan who pummelled them! With
strokes straight from the smithy, Kunderan scattered the field and
gave Mike Smith's brow the "Napoleon at Ratisbon" effect. Larter and
Knight, Titmus and Wilson came alike to him. and were made to look
second grade bowlers in high school cricket. He had 170 runs against
his name and dynamism. It mattered little whether Kunderan's feet were
not near the pitch as defined in the Cricket copy book, or near the line
of the ball or jf his bat was a trifle aslant. Kunderan's mercurial and
mem\lrable innings that day gave positive pro(lf. that good batsman ship
lay not in sheer scientific skill or plodding perfection but in attributes
like the spirit of adventure, the suppleness of wrists, sharpness of
eyesight, and springiness of reflexes. An English sports scribe who was
privileged to witness Kunderan's knock went into rhapsody and
compared Kunderan's batting to the art of Kanhai, the West Indian.

If Merchant and Hazare were ihe products of the Bradman era,
more interested in the mathematics of making runs than in the attrative
art of making them in a poetic or a pUlsating way, Kunderan is the
pioneer pace setter for the present .1!,uian bating re~aissance-a spirit
symbolised by Hanumant SlOgh, JalSlmha and Durrant.
Truly, the soul of Ranji has its happy reincarnation in Kunderantbat Marvel from Mungalore.

