A Rendezvous with ...
V. Ranganathan

To persons, particularly of the final year Production Engineering
course, an accident is defined in "INDUSTRIAL SAFETY" as an
unforseen, unexpected event which mayor may not cause injuries.
This definition can never be forgotten as it is the summum bonum of all
that safety has to proclaim.
It .was only the other day, on Pongal day, that I ventured to go to
C. V. K 'S home, only a few yards away, to wish him a happy Pongal
and enpassant to show him the new scooter which had been pining for
want of a driver. Hitherto I had no practical knowledge "on the seat".
Back there at 1. I. T, K had taught me, balancing alone, with himself
on the pillion. manipulating the controls. Further my age was protesting at the fact that an Electronics Engineer demonstrating the vagaries
of an I. C. Engineer was simply too much to stomach. Further more his
gear-box had to be replaced. as my da.bbling at the controls was enough
to relegate the Lewis criterion of gear-teeth design as being too conservative. In addition I was fresh from the I. C. Lab. and the Specific
fuel consumption curves were still vivid in my memory.

Coming back to what had occured, I started the scooter, with the
of any Senor, and adjusting the throttle. disengaged the clutch,
changed over to first gear and after an initial shake up I was off.
A cold shiver was running down my spine but I condoned it as being
merely an amateurish feeling and certainly not as ominous. Remembering that an engine on first, involves too much strain, I resolved to
change to second. Naturally I had to look where the sign of second
gear was and my attention was diverted away from the road. The gear
had to trespass past central, on to second. and of course J{'s instruction to reduce the throttle came to my mind.
gu~ts

When I looked towards the road aU my knowledge about engines
vanished. Thcre was a car hardly a few feet ahead-and I was just my
ordinary human being, facing a dynamic problem of avoiding an
unpleasant collision. I had blissfully forgotten the existence of the
foot-brake, presumably having seen too much of the band brake at the
I. C. lab. I inadvertently called out for instructions from K who was
not at the pillion this- time. Panic, the Samaritan of the nervous, came
to my aid and I unconsciously increased the throttle, whizzed past the

