SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER.:

at a rate, visible to the human eye. If he wanted he could be real
mean now. He could ask me to eat my head or shell all the dough
I had. So the efficient brain started clicking. The peace pipe was
lighted. "I say Abbas. Darn good of you to offer to take me around
the city. £4 was it? Very good. I'll be expecting you tomorrow
morning."
The joker was visibly pleased. Soon we reached Atlas. I alighted.
I was darn pleased that Abbas didn't cause any drastic changes in my
schedule. The poor blighter told me, "Ill come tomorrow at 9 sharp,
saar". I eyed the rogue. "Lets see," 1 said casually and strolled into
the Hotel.
The next morning I agreed with the receptionists' suggestion that I
take the tourist bus. Abbas was completely out of the picture. The
bus was to leave round ninish. My fellow travellers were four Sindhis.
One of them was a chap called Lalwani who looked like a man that
had just finished saying Yahoo. We became good pals. Just as the
tourist bus came over, I saw Abbas in his cab. Life took a new
turn. I mean one can't live in peace if guaranteed a lot of
Abbas dodging; that too the Abbas' that pop up like Jack-in-the-box.
Being a bit fast on the feel I dashed into the tourist van. After talking
to the watchman for sometime he tooled off.
We stopped before the huge museum. To the left was the 400'
Cairo tower from which T. V. programmes are broadcast. Papyrus
plant is grown before the building. At this stage the tourist man introduced us to a huge character by name of Mohammed. He took us all
over the museum and later to the pyramids. The museum was really
fantastic. One had to go back in time to appreciate the objects kept
before us. These were from the pyramid of King What's-His-Name.
We saw the clothes, foot wear, palanquin, throne, crown and ornaments of the Pharoah. The cereals that we saw there were 300 years
old, but according to Mohamnlad, were fresh and good. Then we saw
the coffin of the king. This was made of gold and fit his body perfectly.
This was later shoved into a room like coffin and left in the pyramids.
We didn't see the mummies as Lalwani refused to pay up 25 P for the
entrance.
We left for the pyramids. We crossed the glorious, dark blue Nile,
that had seen the Egyptian civilisation in all its glory, the Nile that once
Cleopatra sailed in and all that rot; in short the Nile that had a glorious
history. I had no difficulty in imaglning the ye 01' days when it was
crammed with ancient sailors and traders.
Half an hour later we reached the pyramids. It was a glorious
sight. There were four of them. They were as new as ever, but for a

