On Self Deceit
T.

Gopichand

'Man is a born liar\ thus blurted out Liam O~ Flaharty, summoning aU his Irish frankness, as an opening sentence of one of his novels.
1 never read this novel further than this sentence, but the comment
remained in my mind~ it comes to the surface whenever I had to analyse
human behaviour. During my frequent efforts to synthesise the motives
of h;,lman behaviour, Liam 0' Flaharty's remark always provided me a
strength. like a wooden plaque for a man being swept away in a flooded
stream. It also taught me to analyse men's actions as such, rather
than the individual's and not to confuse between the motives and the
personalities of the individuals.
A lie is always told or invented to deceive. A lie can be intentional
on the part of the person or he may not be aware of its truth. The lie
may be intended to deceive others or to deceive himself. This and
finer ~istinctions are necessary to enable one, to understand the 'phenomena of deceit'. It is the second kind, 'Self Deceit', which is more
interesting-personally-to analyse and 1 put in this article a few random
thought and observations. 'Deceiving others' js a twin of 'Self deceit'
and both are treated simultaneously. However, I should like to state
in the begining itself, that most of the analytical techn;ques oftbis sort
sbould not be applied for self-analysis, till one gains a certain amount
of confidence so as not to be lead to disastrous conclusions

Like many other instincts, 'Self Deceit' is a gift for human beings;
to survive in spite of odd circumastances. But when it ceases to be an
instinct and becomes a complex, or when it is used even when the
situation is not called for it, then it retards all creative activity. In this
aspect 'Deceiving others' is also similar. If it is done as a measure
for survival, in the strictest sense, no one has any right to question it
In this domain, it is the right of an individual to take care of himself.
But when it is used for other means and practiced by a set of individuals
life becomes miscra bIe. On the aver:lge, if there is little "trust" among
individuals in a community, its life is a jungle, uncivilised, inhuman
life.
'Civilisation is a social order which promotes cultural pro-creation'
as defined by Will Durant. It is like an organism with its own unpredictable life cycle. Civilised societies during their decadent years promote
'Sdf Deceit' and 'Deceiving others.' The spark of civilisation becomes

