SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

33

extinct, but the 'Self Deceit' and 'Deceiving others' continue to flourish.
Perhaps, individuals can at times reach the pinnacle of civilised behaviour, but societies in general, are slow to attain it and prone to be
more difficult to retain it.
'Self Deceit' meant strictly for survival is meaningful. It even gives
the necessary 'ego' to create a'level of confidence' and is in general
healthy. It might even give rise to a feeling of contentment, and hence
happiness. Outside this limit an individual becomes a slave of his own
habit and if he does not discipline himself, even his own existence and
the happiness he thinks he is deriving, becomes imaginary and if the
body or mind falters, becomes a lunatic.
'Deceiving others' ia a short-sighted policy. The limit to it is
prescribed by the proverb 'One can be fooled all times; all can be fooled
once; but aU cannot be fooled aU times'. The culprit shall be outcasted
by a healthy society or shall be a potential danger leading to the doom
of the society which cannot punish him.

A collection of human be;ngs interact \n their ideas and behaviour
patterns in such an admirable way that the community as a whole, is a
real stable system. Parts of it may be knocked off, smashed or
annih lated due contingencies of human stupidity, individual or collective
but the species continue and a new collection of societies with fresh
incumbents persist.
An average healthy mind grasps easily the essential out·Iines of an
rderly decent human behaviour. Ignorance or a teething poverty, when
every act counts for survival, can only devise the ways and means for
'Deceit '! A human mind tries to come back to normalcy, when the latter
of the constraint, is removed. But i~morance, some times aided by
fanaticism or the static bad qualities of religion, lasts longer, abets and
aids 'Deceit'.
An average healthy soc!ety weeds out, contin,uously the abnormal
aspects of 'Deceit'. Or let It be that a socIety whIch can weed o,ut tl~e
malcontents from its members shall be healthy. One such socIety In
Persia in the !lood old days coined a proverb:
He who knows not,
And knows not that he knows aot,
Is a fool,
Shun him.
He Who knows not,
And knows that he knows not,

