No Swimming for Me, Please!
s.

Narayan

~henever I hear the sp~ashin~ of ~ater accompanied by the babel
of VOIces, and I know there IS a sWlmmmg pool nearby, I am filled with
a keen sense of disappointment mingled with despair. And I have
ample cause to do so, for I can swim no better than a new-born babe.
No one can ever blame me for not having tried, though by nature I am
neither tenacious nor persevering.

It used to be a weekly ritual of mine to get up early every Sunday,
pull up my brother from deep slumber and cycle over with him to the
swimming pool for further instruction. My brother was supposed to be
very gooo at swimming, though he never came into the water with me.
Muttering a stream of curses under his breath against me, the
morning, the peol, the bike and the human race in general, and running
over them once more to be sure he had'nt missed anything, he would
reluctantly show me the position of the hands while jumping in. His
gloomy and sometimes hostile attitude dampened my spirits somewhat,
however enthusiastic and willing I tried to be. The tiresome biking
would have taken the edge off my surging ambitions to dive and glide
and f!oat and eventually \\in £old medals at swimming, and what with
the incessant grumbling of my brother, I used to learn practically nothing. Every tin~e I jumped into the water he pulled me up for wrong
action like a cop giving warnings for overspeeding. I could not convince
him that staying afloat was more important and necessary than mastering the correct action of jumping in. And every time I moved my
linlbs, feeling thc icy cold of the water biting into me and wishing
myself -in bed swathed in blankets, my brother, sitting high and dry on
the diving board, would holler out instructions, which made every soul
in the pool turn round and stare at me as if I were something the cat
brought in. This, in turn, would bring me running out of the water,
reproaching him for his irritating comments, while he would spew
forth a stream of scorching abuse against my obduracy. Then I
would pUlposely jump into the water head first, just to aggravate him,
flounce desperately in the water, hearing the derisive chuckles of the
brother, and finally end up gasping and sneezing by turns. I can
imagine the sorry figure I cut, shivering from head to foot, eyes bloodw
shot, nose running and cheeks burning with shame af'd indignation.
But my brother had a soft corner for lilt! too, and invariably he used to
praise me in glowing terms about lh~ significant improvement 1 had

