First Impressions
Ie

Fresher"

The first I ever saw of I. I. T. was at the time of the interview.
Someone at Central station had the benevolence to put me on No. 19,
and ages later when I was certain I must be nearing Cape Comorin,
1 was rooted out of the bus. Before long I spotted a very imposing
gate which could not be mistaken for anything but I. 1. T., so I took
heart and made so bold a venture as to walk right in.
As I was all dirty and tired from a long train journey, the gatekeeper who looked like a General in uniform gave me the cold onceover and ignored me completely. With undaunted spirit, I walked on a
little further till the road from the out-gate joined up. But I began to
have grave doubts very soon. I was surrounded by forest and the only
sign of civilization was the tarred road on which I walked. Was this
then, the famous I. I. T., Madras, the higher Technological Institute of
national significance? Was it all one hell of a practical joke'?
And when a deer ran across the road in front of me it was too
I turned around and headed back towards the gate, but a motor
car of W. German ma:lufacture passing by, made me change my mind
again. This time I walked still further and came to Bonn and Delhi
avenues, which got me stuck· Innie-minnie-myna-moe landed me on
Bonn. As I was going up to a board which seemed to have some sort
of map on it, a kindly person came by on a bike and seeing me puffing
along with a large bag, offered to help me. I told him I wanted to go
to Tapti Hostel, as stated in the call for the interview. I can't express
how overjoyed I was to team that such a place existed in the midst of
this jungle. But it sur'! took some time to rid myself of all my doubts.
My benefactor was good enough to give me a lift; and from the carrier
I first saw some buildings under construction, then a few completed
ones, then a few people on the ro't.j, th('n a cross road with an artistic
structure in the centre, then a vcry Jarge buHding on the right and
finally, the hostels! It was only after I entered Tapti that I wa~ completely convinced of the reality of I. I. T., Madras. Hence I was well
Jeceived and provided with a room and other facilities.
mu(~h.

About the interview itself, nothing need be said; I was successful,
as is quite obvious, and hardly surprising-it was so easy I

