Beware of Dog
M. S. Chandramouli

I don't know how they keep up with the. Joneses way out in
England but here in Madras there are some quaint, methods of doing it,
most of which ought to be common knowledge by now. If, for example,
Mr. Jones has gone in for a Lambretta (second-hand though it be) all
you do is wait until you hear the noise of his exhaust at a distance,
then hail a nearly cab and arrive at your house, marvelling aloud to
Mr. Jones, as you get down, the odd coincidence by which both of you
have reached the place at the same time. If, 'at the clothiers, Mrs. Jones
is heard to proclaim loudly,. her preference for a certain type of Conjeevaram sari~ you nudge your wife and ask her to make enquiries, at a
suitable decibel level, why a particular variety of American silk is not
available; if (you are careful to add) the stock arrives will they kindly
send information around to the house at once? If Master Jones is
generally known to be the first in his class all you do is to let it be known
in the surroundings that your offspring is terribly playful and never
really took to books and thal sort of thing but you do remember that
evening when his aunt asked him to recite 'Baa Baa Black Sheep' and
he obliged by quoting the complele works of Shakespeare. Intelligent?
Of course. Only very, very playful.
And so on and so forth ad infinitum.
However there is one peculiar method of leting Mr. Jones know
where he stands, which seems to be th~ prerogative of the Madras
house-owner. This we may label as the Beware-of.Oog method.
The method is simplicity, itself. Once you find that Mr. Jones' activities
are getting out of hand, that he has removed all the weeds from his
garden and is planning to grow Dahlias; that he has been recently
elected President of the local Men's Club, well it is time to act. and
you do so-promptiy- by hanging on your gate, a board, which carries
..he legend BEWARE OF DOG-indeed, the coup de grace!
Of course this will involve a small sacrifice on your part, such as
for example buying a dog. But then you need not necessarily play the
game (who does anyway?-in this world of deceit and treachery); In
which case you go right ahead and hang the board; when later eyebrows
are raised at the ab:.ence of a dog, you may mention casually, that
since it is being bought on a hire-purchase basis it spends part of its
time at the dog-shop.

