SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

41

The dog itself is an insignificant quantity in the scheme of things.
What matters is the board and the legend it carries. Note the diabolical ingenuity of the words printed therein. It does not say beware of
a dog, or beware of this dog or that dog-just beware of dog. The
prospective visitor is thus unable tomake up his mind as to how many dogs
he might encounter, before he arrives at safety. In particular, if the
house has two gates and if each carries one board asking you to beware
of dog, you are left wondering as to whether both gates are being
guarded or whether it is better to risk one and hope that the said dog
is only manning (or rather dogging) the other gate.
And what of Mr. Jones? Well, his personality. has dwindled, his
hopes are crushed and he presents the appearance of a man who knows
when to accept defeat. The children from the neighbourhood no
longer crowd around his house. Oh, he doesn't have a dog, you know,
not to speak of. The passers-by cast a pitying look on his silhouette,
which they see in the window and murmur aloud that Mr. Jones is a
lucky rrrr. really with a neighbour who is sI;lch a comfort to the
surrounding with thatfiercestlitlle Alsatian ever, which he owns.
There is, however, one fearful possibility which it is better not to
contemplate. It is this. Goaded by the maudlin sympathy of his
ndrhbours and perhaps by the majestic growl of your Alsatian at night,
it is quite possible that Mr. Jones might be driven into buying a
Borzoi. Observe how at once your stock falls! The ehildren rush
around to Mr. Jones; the passers-by tum their pitying eyes away from
Mr. Jones' windows on to yours. The chain reaction continues.
All this is a contingency which one has to learn to take into one's
stride. And then there is always the board. Assuming that Mr. Jones
does go in for a Borzoi and does become the proud owner of a
Beware-of-Dog board. you can always do one better by having the words
on"your board engraved in gold. By the time Mr. Jones catchts up on
this one, you already start thinking in terms of platinum. You are
always thus one jump ahead. The crux of the matter lies in your initial
lead.
Now, those of you who are already well versed in the art of dogbewaring may. at this stage, flip the page and pass on to the next
article; however. there must be among you a number of unwary souls
who are wont to take Beware-or-Dog boards as nothing more, nothing
Jess lhan a pleasant joke. Take heed ye all, of your ignorance I
Never in your life, brashly open a Beware-of-Dog gate, in the fond
hope that the dog is securely anchored Otherwise, before you can say
Alathur Ananthanarayana, a big patch will have appeared on the seat
of your trousers. The experienced amongst you, who have not yet

