42

SIXTH ANNUAL Nl)MBEJ{

flipped the page and are still reading this article, will know that, by
far; the best approach is 10 creep quietly to the gate and
genlty say "woof." The response that this cry evokes will
determine the subsequent course of your actions. For example,
a long time ago, when I was still a neophyte in t~ese matters, I went
and said "woof' a sindicated A dirty mongrel which on its back
provided boarding and locging for hordes of fleas rolled out from
under a bush. J laughed contemptuously and pushed past the gate. I
will never make the same mistake again; fortunately for me before the
big brute, (Heaven knows where it Came from) could settle· down to
business, a sweet, young voice said .. Tommy It and I Was slved from
a messy encounter. 1 he moral: leok out for sweet, yo.ung voices.
In the eventuality that there is no sweet y~ung voice abou~ and
you find yourself in a state wht:rein the dog is sniffing aL your ankles,
undecided as to which part of your body it should slart on first, the
best course of action would be to remain absolulely still and murmur
sweet nothings such as: "There, there boy. Me friend. Me not enemy."
Now Tommy might decide to celebrate this glad news by biting Of
your shins; on the other hand, of course. he might not. He will
probably tell himself that with a face like yours, you could'nt steal a
whistJe. if it put in your pocket at a Scout Jamboree.
Om~e this stage has been reached usually all is well. The dog
turns away in disgust, to gnaw at a bone. You advance on tip-toe so
that the small vibrations of the earth do not disturb the dog, engaged
at its meal. This happy ending is not always reached, however. Cases
have been reported, wherein the dog after wa~hing its hand of its
loath'ome subject and returning to its bone, has suddenly remembered
a sacred promise and turned back on its hapless victim with the
religious zeal of the duty-conscious. '

Keeping this fact in mind, given a set of circumstances where .the
dog has turned away fi0m you, it is best not to take any risks. Lift
your lrOU~eJ ends and make a dash for the portico. One does nol think
about dignity and allied conc~pts at these times. One just runs.
And having done so, one finally comes to the c1asic fete-a-tete
with the Master. "Oh, I'm really so sorry", he says. "did Tommy give
you any troule?'"
You ca~t a passionate look 1n that direction, screw)'our face into
a hideous smile (its bound to be hideous) and murmur "Oh! no.
Tommy and I are pretty good friends, you know~he. he, he!"
If not, you may hurt the Mtlster's feelings.

