Avernus Diaboli
V. Anantharaman
Ghosts were created when the first man woke in the night. Through
the ages innumerable, ghoststories have been transmitted from generation
to generation and a whole legacy of ghastly encounters and misadventures with ghosts and ghouls has been beqeuathed to an unbelieving and
unsympathetic student world. Sir C. V. Raman would have every man
as a ghost and define these, "poor, weak palsy-stricken churchyard
things", precisely as non-existent psychological and spiritual hallucinations, arising in a bewildered and abnormal human mind. But Sir
C. V. Raman is a scientist, and he has to reconcile the theory of ghosts
with the hard material facts of daily life-in as uncompromising a
manner as possible. The existence of ghosts is relegated to the realm of
imagination-where fancy and fantasy have been fabricated by excessive
and useless meditation. r his appeared to be an undisputable fact till
recently; but events are alleged to have occured in Godavari Hostel
which flatly contradict the existence of a theory relating to the nonexistence of ghosts, ghouls and other nuisances.
A hostel is never still in the darkness, to those who listen intently.
Unofficial sources claim that a certain fixed number of ghosts have
been circulating around the hostel, around midnight, and exciting the
young scholars to greater and greater depths of despondency and desperateness. Coupled with the menace of surprise periodicals, the report
about ghosts has led to the general increase of insomniacs and insane
people. The night-long patient vigil of some of my comrades and
myself, has been of no use in either confirming or refuting the possibility
of ghosts in the vicinity. An attempt to get to the root of the matter
was made and I find that our night-watchman, who with no one to keep
watch on him, has been responsible for spinning a whole set of yarns
about ghosts in Godavari.
One of the earliest reports of the watchman on ghosts tens us that
. one stormy night, the sleepy watchman found before him the apparition
of an undressed being, so repulsive that he instantaneously threw his
old chappa/ at it. This appears to us now, as a naive attempt at guesswork. It is hard to reconcile this theory with the obvious fact that if
there are ghosts prevalent around Godavari Hostel, there must be some
around the Saraswati Hostel too. The Saraswati watchman assures us
that apart from the inmates, he has not seen or come across any species
in close resemblance to those supernatural and fictitious entities. (He

