44

INDIAN INSTI1lJTB OF TECHNOLOGY. MADRAS

is often accused of being found asleep at his post around mid-night and
lhi.; a.ssumes special significance.)
One of our inmates has been periodically having some trouble with
ghosts. Whether this is the eftect of an overworked imagination or the
result of a perceptibly nervous disposition, 1 cannot teLL He aJleged
that he had locked his room one day, with a Master lock and lett it
temporarily for the purpose of paying a courtesy-call on one of his
fnends whc;:n the catastrophe (as he chose to call it,) occured. He found
an upturned bed, disarranged cosmetics and disheveled clothing. His
neighbours washed their hands of the affair and some enthusiastic ghost
supporters hold the ghosts to be responsible for dlJing tllis act.
Although he has been repeatedly besieged by the students to
accompany him on a midnight excursion to the Stadium, the Head
Quarters of the ghosts, the watchman refuses to budge on the grounds
that he is "on duty". He further claims that his presence Will bulldoze the ghosts into abject suomission or evanescent evaporation.
A friend of mine has enough trouble with ghosts to whole hearledly
approve the exislence of ghosts, as a growing menace to the peace of the
campus. He reports that he has oflen Illissed his brief-bag m his room.
in the bus, in the theatre and yet it has, like a false coin, kept n:turrung
to him. Here Ilppearance and disappearance of the object in question
is activated by the arrival of the midnight hour. Another lump of
hving matter in our hostel "tunes" III to the ghost frequency every
night afler twelve and with his extra sensory perception, distinguishes
the ghoulish resonance from ow1ish dissonance He complains about
this unceasingLy to us :
".t{e talked and as he talked
Wallpaper came alive,
Suddenly ghosts walked,
And four doors were five
It is possible with the aid of specious reasoning to conceive of an
a.bstract entity like ghosts but it is very difficult to scientifically prove
lheir existence. Frequently, within the ghostly house of the brains, one
hears faint and solemn music and an eerie famt carouse. This is when
ima!,ination overrides the intellect, and we enter a fascinating and highly
absorbing realm, of the abyss of the supernatural-AVERN US DIABOLI.

