Humour in Fiction
M. Vikram Rao
Th is view is essentially a biased one -limited on the one side by the
extent of my readIng and on the other by personal likes. I have heard
it said that Wodehouse was an insufferable bore with a penchant for
writing. to quote somebody, 'odd' English. This oddity (or rather I
consider him as such) is well 'versed' in poetry and the like and one
who considers the perusal of Latin literature, the ultimate in enjoyment.
Latin being Greek to me, I couldn't possibly stand judgment on that.
This beginning is more in the nature of a sort of defence than a statement, for I can almost hear the murmurs already!
Humour in fi tion has always been marked by characters,
who soon become bywords, and it is not uncommon to hear 'Have you
read that Jeeves book?'. Alternatively (and ignorantly) 'Have you read
that Jeeves book by what's-his-name?!'. The postion is however not
all that bad, for, very often readers digest (with relish) humour in
uniform or any other palatable form! It has been the boast of many
(and disputed by few) that the humour of the (self or otherwise)
acknowledged masters is characteristic. Hehry Cecil dabbles in legal
wit, (one title reads: 'No Alibi for the Judge!'). Joan Butler has you
in stitches with humour that cannot bc categorised and Wodehouse has
that characteristic language and plot that could not be attributed to
anybody else. It is here that
humour
differs from say
detective fiction. John Creasey writes a series of books under assumed
names and ncbody finds the difference. ErIe Stanley Gardener writes
as A.A. Fair and gets a 'fair'ly high acclaim early enough to vindicate
holders of the 'Whats-in-a-name' view. But take humour-if Wode
house wrote under the name of Springbok or anything equally
outlandish, he could not, I am sure, so completely disguise his style so
as not to be recognised. Advocates of the slogan mentioned above
will abo, I am sure, buy (when it comes to borrowing, one of course,
has to be less fastidious) a book mainly on the strength of the author's
name. The next criterion is the publisher. I, for example, would rely
heavily on a book published by say Hodder, having been deceived less
by this publisher than by any other!
Humour is ladled out in so many forms, nowadays, by a galaxy of
authors, and yet can be divided into two categories-one, books written
with the intention of being humorous, and nothing but that. A frank
confession is implied that you are 10 lie pl!rsuaded to laugh or at any
rate smile in a wan fashion jf the pt:I50n who has recommended the

