46

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

author is watching. This, incidentally, is one of the acute problems of
etiquette today. When somebody suggests a book.or an author it often
becomes necessary to simulate enthusiasm and even pass favourable
judgment at a later date though it may have been the drabest trash this
side of the Suez. (Especially so if that somebody is not just anybody
but Somebody!) Coming back to the categorisation, the other type is
,when an author affects to have a naturally humourous style (!) interspersed amidst a sea of gravity. So much so that nowdays humolJr
rears it's smiling head in the most unexpected quarters. Agatha.
Christie's 'Secret at Chimneys' was so wryly humorous that I, for one
started looking up the meaning of the word 'hack' in the dictionary.
The use of puns is one of the most successful artifices for producing hilarity; yet it seems out of favour with contemporary humour, at
least in the realm of fiction. Lamb has said 'I never knew an enemy to
puns who was not an ill-natured man'. Nevertheless, puns do not
always serve to raise a laugh, but yet have that arresting quality b/,
which one is forced to pause and savour them. Antipathy for them i;;
not found wanting among the reading public and in this context it may
·be proper to quote Poe: 'Of puns it has been said that those most
dislike who are least able to utter them!'

Orte of the "leading contemporary dealers of mirtb-qqakes is
P. G. Wodehouse. His technique is to make a plot so involved as t()
be devastatingly funny. The Theme is invariably the same-the eternal
triangle modified in to a set of polygons Inter-woren to confuse the
issue further. In su<;h a case, you savour the book best- if you allow
YOllrself to be tossed from side to side with the story witbout making
any studied efforts to unravel the delif)ltful confusion. Tn such a
fashion, the end, where all the knots untie with remarkable rapidity,
gives you the maximum satisfaction.
His dialogues are riotous and practically all the' characters created
by him have become hits; but where he really surpasses himself is in
descriptions-mere commonplaces enlivened by th~ choice of words.
To quote an example (by no means one of the best, yet representative):
'There is something about the manner in which Spring comes to
England which reminds one of the overtures of a diffident puppy trying
to make friends. It takes a deprecating step forward, scuttles away in
a panic. steals tim()rously back and finally, gaining confidence, makes a
tumultuous and joyful rush.'
H !n:-y Cecil, on the other hand specialises in dialogues, court
scenes in particular. The repartee between counsel and witness would
make the Sphinx smile. To proceed in this strain about other authors,
contemporary or otherwise, would be easy, but exacting to say the least.
To derid~, competence is brought to question; to enthuse over a few

