Merry Go Round
K.

Narayanan

SELF SURRENDER: Vibhishana, Ravana's only sanguine and
pious hrother, finding that all his words of counsel were not heeded to,
by his elder brother, leaves Lanka and surrenders himself to Sri Rama.
There was a lot of hue and cry from Sugriva. Lahhmana and others
and everybody susp~cted Vibhishana's motive behind such a surrender.
At that moment, Rama narrates an incident to his younger
brother and others as follows: "A couple of birds, male and a female
were perched on a branch of a big tree in a forest. A passer-by
shivering due to cold and rain, took refuge under the same tree. The
male bird takes pity on the shivering passer-by and says to its consort,
"You see this old man has taken refuge under the same tree where we
are living and we should help him. Try to get some dry leaves, slicks
and light some fire so that he can warm him.;elf up," Accoldinglya
fire was lit and the old ma~ warmed himself up and socn he was
hungry. The two birds talked to each other. .. The old man probably
feels hungry. Let us both fall on the fire so that he can take our
roasted boJieo; and appease his hunger". So sayirg, both the birds
fell into the fire. The ol~ man's hunger was appeased.
Rama said to lakhmana, "When even birds livIng in this Bharath
Varsha are imbued with this spontaneous Dharmic Sense and
sacrifice, you people object to my giving protection to Vibhishana,
who. I know has surrendered his all to me. I stand for the protection
of all thos:! who s'.lrrender themselves to me without any reservations".
Thus Vibhishana joined Rama's camp and attained Moksha at the
end.
This episode from our fan:ous epic Sri Ramayana. known as
Vibhishana Sarunagathi, iIlustrat(s the ~uintessence of Sarangatha
Dhulmu.

•

•

•

WHITHER EDUCATION? I had occasion to attend a gathering
of school-b:>ys and college student .. at Madurai; a popular social worker
was putting some questions to the school-students with a view to find
out their knowledge of this country of ours. He came across a student
doing his ninth standard in Sowrashtra High School in Madurai. The
following conversation took place:
Social-worker:

in our country?

My dear boy! Do you know where Sowrashtra is

