50

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

The peasant, began to offer tea to everybody over there, but all except
the leader refused to take the drink. The leader alone drank the tea
fully, thanked the peasant and resumed his journey. The peasant and
his wife were immensely happy over the leader's visit.
The leader and his party traversed some distance. Soon the leader
turned to his friends and asked them. "How was the tea, offered by the
peasant?" All his friends joined together and told their leader. "How
on earth can anybody take such a drink prepared in such a dirty
fashion? How did you manage to gulp down one mud pot full of that
tea, Sir?" The leader replied. "I did'nt take the tea. T drank the
kindness of the poor people. If I too joined with you all and refused
to take that tea so affectionately given, the peasant and his wife would
have felt vp.ry sorry and been hurt also; and to that extent they will be
removed from LIe; ideologically and in the service of our country.
Workers like us have to win over the hearts of the masses by merging
with them and sharing their joys and sorrows." The friends were
abashed by the leader's explanation and they could in a way catch the
spirit of leadershio by this incident.
ACUPUNCTURE: Tn the days of witchcraft, people used to
stick pins into the images of their el~emies. hoping to make them suffer.
Today, there art doctors who stick pins into their patients for the
opposite reason-to make them well.
The astonishing medical practice known as 'acupuncture' ,-the
word simply means needle puncture-is beginning to be used in England.
The acupunture was followed to cure people of diseases like asthma.
hay-fever, migraine i.e., hemicrania (headache restricted to one half of
the head), headaches, duodenal ulcers, anguina, sciatica and sinusitis.
It is said to relieve anxiety, fatigue, depression and other psychological
states; a great number of skin di'it'a~es, children's diseas<><; and,gynaecological diseases. This method of cure achieves spectacular results
when the concerned disease is in its infancy.
Acupuncture originated in China about five thousand years ago,
but at first it was the closely guarded secret of the Imperial familv.
If you divulged it, your head would be chopped off. That's one reason
why it never reacheq the out-side world. The other reason is that
acupuncture was hard to pass Oll. To learn it you have to have
unusually sensitive fingers and even then you have to practise hard for,
years, before you could achieve anything.
For centuries acupuncture was the standard medical practice of
China; then it fell into decline. But in the last half-century it has been
revived and is more popular in China now than at any time before in

