SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER,

'1

history. About half a million doctors practise it and every Chinese
hospital has a department attached to it.
To give a brief idea as to what this acupuncture-is:-The diagnosis
of an a-ilment is based on the Chinese idea of twelve "meridian lines"
in the human body. Each begins in the trunk and ends in the tip of
either a finger or a toe. Eacl\ has some mysterious control over a
particular organ. By feeling the pulse points where they coint:ide with
the meridians. a doctor can diagonise the condition of all the organs
without the patient telling a word about other symptoms. A new
electric device in Japan, about the size of a T. V. console, set has
several terminals which when placed on various finger tips gives a
pathological iurvey of the body'.
After the diagnosis, comes the cure. This simply involv~s sticking
a pin in the meridian in exactfy the right place. It is put just below the
skin at right angles a.nd lef.t there for a quarter of an hour. The idea
is to achieve the necessary stimulus or sedation in the meridian,
correcting the imbalance which is affecting the organ. Accuracy is
the secret. The doctor with very sensitive fingers still needs years of
praclic~ to achieve precision. The meridians are thin and wrong
placing of pins can do as much harm as right placing can do good.
The future of acupuncture is unpredictable since electronics has con:te
to the aid of their gold and silver pins and the ancient secrets of the
Chinese emperors.
CHEMICAL ORNITHORHYNCUS: All of us are familiar
with the two types of animals, the viviparous and the oviparou,S, the
former referring to the animals which lay eggs, hatch them and allow
their offspring to seek their own food and the latter referring to the
animals which give birth to their young ones (which will be their own
replicas in miniature) and suckle them. There is a semi-aquatic Australian egg-laying animal (mammal) called Ornithorhyncus, also known
as duck-bill or platypus. This mammal is comidered a link between
mammals and reptiles. This duck-billed platypus is a b~ological
curiosity in that it lays its eggs, hatches them and suckles the young
ones too; Thus it partakes of,the characteristics of both oviparous and
viviparous animals.
Similarly we have an element thallium in the third group of the
Periodic Table of elements. If one carefully studies the chemical
behaviour of thallium, it will be found that it possesses properties
similar to those of several elements belonging to varied groups. Since
the element thallium partakes of the characteristics of several varied
elements, J. R. D. Partington, the 1)oted. Chemist in his book 01\ "Inorganic Chemistry'; refers to the popular statement that Thallium is
considered by many as the "ChemicaIOrnithorhyncus".

