S2

INDIAN lNSTJTIJlE 01' TECHNOLOGY, MADltAS

VITAMIN-B: The discovery of the potency of the Vitamin-B series
came about due to the wanton act of a grudging servant. A Dutch
magnate was maintaining a rich variety of poultry in his f;\rms and
commercial poultry-raising was one of his ardent hobbies. He fed all
the poultry with fine polished rice and other grains. In spite of a rich
variety of nutritious food-stuff, the poultry showed an overall weakness
, which was eating into the very vitals of the poultry. The rate at which
the general stamina was on the wane, alarmed the master and he was
very anxious to tide over the crisis. He wanted to consult poultryexperts and so left his headquarters for the purpose. He left special
instructions to his servant to take e.dni care of the fowls. The servantboy was for a long time jealous ot the fowl since they enjoyed a rich
feed in the whole farm everyday. So he took the earliest opportunity
of changing the regular diet routine for the poultry. He replaced the
polished grains by coarse, coloured grain. Within a week of this type
of routine, to the amazement of the servant-boy and the neighbours, the
poultry showed a very remarkab.1e change in their health. Soon the
general debility of the poultry disappeared and the poultry began to
grow chubby and pink in health.
After a month or so, the master returned, vexed for want of a.
proper solution to his problem. Soon after his arrival, he went strai~ht
to his farm but to his pleasant surprise, he saw very healthy fowls, in
pl~ce of the very emaciated ones he had left a month ago. He enquired
the servant-boy as to how the miracle had been brought about. The
servant-boy narrated all that happened during his absence. The master
ordered several samples of the grains to the nutrition-research laboralories for finding out the secret of such a growth-stimulating cereal. On
analysis it was discovered that the outer bran in the case of all grains
gets removed while polishing is done and that a very essential vitamin
is present in that bran. Thus the unpolished variety of the grains contained a lot of this "itamin which is so very essential for the proper
up-keep of the general body of humans and the animals.
Thus Dame Nature's secrets are revealed to the world through
such accidents as the above-mentioned ones, \\ hich turn out to be discoveries in 'the hands of a capable scientist. It is always the inquiring,
inquisitive scientific worker through whom Nature chooses to reveal
her secrets. A chance observation by the servant-boy thus flowed into
a very useful discovery.
TURNING POINT: It is of interest to note that after Ahalya
Sapavimochana in Ramayana, brought about by the contact of Sri
Rama's foot with a big boulder, several monkeys with different size
boulders on their backs, lined up in iI. queue and entreated Lakhmana
to request his brother tl) place his foot on each of the boulder, they had
carried on their backs. Lakhmana asked them the reason for such a

