SIXTH ANNUAL NUMBER.

53

request. All the monkeys replied in a chorus, "We heard from you
yesternight about the miraculous transformation of a boulder into a
beautiful damsel by Rama's placing his foot on it. Each one
of us is desirous of having a good-looking damsel for marriage.
So please ask your elder brother to condescend to place his foot
on each of the boulder we are having with us. Lakshmana laughed
heartily on hearing them and told them "It is not as if every boulder
can be transformed into a damsel by contact with Rama's foot. If
every boulder were to tum into a damsel this way, then many boulders
were on Rama's way and all should have turned into damsels. It is
due to a Maharshi's curse that a lady was forced to be there as a
boulder, waiting for emancipation from the curse, which resulted by
Rama's keeping his foot on the stone. Rama's foot alone could do
that miracle and that too with a particular boulder."
The significance of this episode is far-reaching. Some of us would
have had the opportunity of studying one and the same subject under
different people, either at school or in college. Wf! would have
observed, that we began to get a proper. hang of the subject only when
a particular teacher started teaching that subject to us. This provides
an important turning point in our lives and from that time onwards we
evince a sustained interest in that subject and give our best in that
discipline of knowledge. The subject taught and the persons taught
were the same; but the teacher only changed. But when there is a
fortuitous combination of a good teacher, animated lecture, the opptlrtune time and a masterly presentation of the topics, then this is sure to
be a turning point in the life of any student. When once the turning
point occurs, no extraneous efforts are necessary to keep the student
interested in the subject. Both the teacher and the taught have the
sacred duty of working hard to bting about the turning-point.
NONE TO THE RESCUE: The physics lecturer of a city college was
teaching the Junior Intermediate students. During the course of the
lecture, he was discussing some aspects of isosceles triangles. Instead of
writing the full word "isosceles", he was writing the abbreviation "isos",
during his lecture. One mediocre student got up in the middle of the
class and asked the teacher to expand the word "isos" for his benefit.
The lecturer put the same question to several first-rate students but
none could give the full spelling of the word "isosceles." The lecturer
was surprised to see that nobody could spell that word. The student who
put the question first requested the lecturer himself to give the spelling.
But out came the following unexpected reply, of course, meant in a
lighter vein, "That's precisely the reason why I asked all the intelligent
fellows of the class to spell the word and come to my rescue. I myself
forgot the correct spelling. I have been using this abbreviation for such
a length of time that 1 now have to look to somebody to enlighten me."
There was a hilarous laugher in the class-room.

