Misleading Miscellany
P. S. Srinivasan
That definition of a very popular game by the late G. B. Shaw was
chiselled out in rather clear-cut terms. But are you sure you could
understand a game, any game, the first time you hear somebody
explaining it to you or even when you are actually witnessing it? Said a
small boy: "Yes, I know all about it. Whl!n one team is in, the
other is out. Two of the players of the team that is out, come in and
begin. When one of them who is now in, is out, another of his team
comes in. Like this they come in, one by one, and when all of them are
in and out, the team that was first in,goes out and other team comes in.
When both teams have been in and out, they find out who has won".
The boy was, of course, explaining cricket to his chum.
They, out of the innermost depths of the dark continent for the
first time, were on a visit to London. "Y ou do your rituals on a real
grand scale here", began one "Around a level patch of luscious green
meadow, thousands of worshippers had already gathered and wcre
cb.anting the holy hymns. In the middle, there were two sets of long
yellow candlesticks placed erect. Two high priests in flowing white
robes came in, walked solemnly to the candlesticks in the middle, and
facing each other prayed for a short time. Then there rushed in eleven
angry men and started running about. That they were upto no good, was
clear from the beginning., Two of them came to the high priest who was
praying near the candlesticks and snatched from the holy man, the small
red sphere he was having. They pointed out here and tlrere and their
gang took -up places, leaving the one with the red sphere. a huge devil
of a fellow, near the candlesticks. Having seen the dilemma of the high
priest, there came out from a building at the edge of the green, two
men in armour and proceeded slowly to the candlesticks and stood near
them. One of them, asked the high priest opposite to him if he was put
to much trouble. His friend took his place near the holy man. The
other high priest, having resigned himself to the inevitable, was standing
at a little distance away gazing abstractedly upon the scene. Now the
devil with the red sphere, after a quick look around, started running
and suddenly hurled the same at the candle~ticks! He wanted to knock
them out of the ground, we thought. The other fellows of this wicked
bunch, in the meanwhile, were performing the ritual dance on silent/
stealthy feet, moving towards the guardian, perhaps intending to
catch him. But this shining example in armour, with utter nonchalance
smote the sphere away with his club and started running towards the
devil who hurled the sphere. The worshippers, enchanted by this noble

