A Vision of the Future
M. Menon

lt is a well known geographical t'act that three..t'ourths of the world
under water. The sky-rocketing increase in population makes it
imperative for man to take over the sea ah.o, as his living environment.
This could be done in two ways, namely, by building a floating city or
by building a city under water. The latter is to be preferred since the
former is quite unstable due to the surface movement of water and due
to the effect of strong winds. Initially, this building of cities under
water could be done quite near the shore line, where the water is nol
very deep and b.ence this pressure at the bottom is reasonably low.
The buildings of the under-sea city should be enclosed in a canopy to
keep out the surrounding water. The canopy could be made of high
tensile plastics, capable of withstanding high pressure and which are
also corrosion resistant. The ideal shape for the canopy is a hemisphere
with a radius of about a kilometer. It could be made in sections and
then assembled under water. After the canopy has been made water
tight, the water inside could be pumped out. Care should be taken at
the foundations to prevent seepage. It is preferable to make the
entrance to the canopy with a water-lock system, i. e. by having tWo water
tight doors, at the ends of a cylindrical chamber. A person entering
from outside, first of all enters the chamber, closes the outer door and
then the water inside is pumped out. The inner door iii then opened
for entry into the city.

Is

After the water has been pumped out, the ground inside can be
dried and levelled and buildings could be constructed of rocks dug up
from the sea-bed. All these t uildings should have basements in
order to get free space. Most of the space in thelie cities, howevert
should be reserved for agriculture. As it is very difficult to make very
large canopies, it is advisable to have a number or small centres spread
over the sea-bed than to have one very large city. Since plants as well
as human beings cannot live without sunlight Of air, tr.ese should be
provided. For the farmer, \\-e can install powerful sunlamps suspended
from the roof of the canopy. The power supply is obtained from
nuclear reactors which are located cenlrally. to supply a number of
cities. These lamps could be put on and off, every twelve hours, to
simulate night and day. Air is circulated either by pipes from the
atmosphere above the sea surface or by the use of permeable membranes. These have been effectively tested in the U. S. recently.
These membranes allow the air in water to seep through but shut out
the water itself. If the canopy is made of such a material then air

