Destination B. Tech. ..
Arvilld Johari.
Security, good pay and a good future are. as often as not. the
essential ingredients one looks for when chasing a career. This is
especiallY, ever so much more the case when your old man does the
chasing for you. And sure enough the finger unerringly points towards
Eng:neering. How many other pr0fessions can boast of being the very
essence of stability and advancement of a country? One can never
over-emphao;ize the importance of Engineering institutions; a degree of
Bachelor of Technology in your pocket makes you monarch of all the
rnarhinery vou survey. And that is something that can really lend your
walk a justifiable swagger.
One however, usually sees the mere exterior form of an Engineer;
the form that exudes an aroma of cologne and solid prosperity. Even
authors and journalists contine themselves to describing an engineer as
a successful man, successfully working on his second million or so, little
realizing the hard work and the sheer sweat of the brow, that takes
one to the destination B. Tech.
Unswerving ambition is a thrilling thing to yodel about, if you are
a well paid grand opera tenor, dying nightly for noble principles and
rushing out--after the sublime tragedy-to fiU your capaceous paunch
with spaghetti and chiants (or idli and dosa, if you happen to be in
the kind of place I am in); but it isn't quite so stirring if pursued
without orchestral accompaniments.
College life was supposed to be a life of ease and tranquility
suffused with gaiety at every step-I'd sure like to get my bands on
the sinister mob that's supposed to be behind that elaborate piece of
delirium!
On second thoughts, I don't think it makes much of a difference,
for as it is. the open innocence of my childhood faith has suffered too
many shocks since the day when 1 believed that problems of overpopulation could be solved by a scientific extermination of storks.
Therefore I am not surprised (or even amused) by what college life bas
to hand out. I'm not complaining.
Some die-hards. the forever unsati'sfied set of wise-guys, indignantly
point out the absolutely unpractical point of view involved in having a

