64

INDIAN INSTITlJTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

rigid workshop programme, devoid of almost all engineering values for
the ever suffering first year students. They insist we aren't going to
become workmen and vehemently condemn anything that calls for a
test of brawns coupled with brains. They would rather specialize in the
brains department-of course, whether they can or not is quite
immaterial. And here's where they make their biggest slip. For
after all, a workman knows how, a theoretical man knows why but a
good engineer should know the How and the Why.
I am all for workshops and practical training; one can never get
enough of that.
And now about "Periodicals", Though most of us- revolt at the
institution of periodicals, we must remember two things. One is facjng
facts, and the other the quixotic apparitien called the long-run.
Periodicals prove of immense help in the terminal and final examination
aad the examinations, in turn, are of invaluable help in assessing our
potentials. Examinations are the magic formulae that help us to get
ahead in life; you can't dodge them; you can't side step them. They
follow you i.bruugh Itfe closer than Mary's well-known little lamb. You
come across eX.iminations at every step of your life and you just \"annot
afford to underestimate their value. Periodicals put you in shape
for the terminals and finals-I bet you'll agree if it weren't for the
periodicab we would really be in a helluva state for the finals. And
the finals prepare us for further tests-they give us confidence
in ourselves to face all those microscopic little things of life that make
aU the difference. If you have reached your destination the Bachelor
of Technology, if you have passed this test and have been conferred
the degree, you can stand up to anything that life can dish out, by way
of trials and tribulations.
Awright, you don't have to shout it out! I know that to try and
epitomize that phase of a student's life which most disagrees with his
digestive system, is rather ditficult. But well, there you are! Facts
have to be faced and examinations do prove pretty helpful in the long
run, you know. Personally, I wOllldn'tcare to hav.e iL any other way.
How about you?
Ah! The life of examinations spiced with periodicals! (Ugh) Lead
me to where they are held will you (sigh).

