ANNUAL REPORTS
DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MECHANICS

REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1964-65
Dr. S. R. Vallurijoined this Department as Senior Professor and
Head of the Department in December 1963. He left for the States
again, in connection with presentation of some of his research on
theories of metal fatigue. He was awarded the Wright brothers 'medal
by the Society of Automotive Engineers for 1963 for meritorius contribution in the field of Aeronautics. He rejoined duty soon after the
starting of the present academic year. Since his return, much of his
time has been taken up with the planning of the Aeronautics Department which will be started hopefully from July 1965.
Sri N. R. Rajappa proceeded to the Stanford University, U. S. A.
for his Ph. D in the field of Astronautics.
We take great pleasure to notify that two of the Staff members.
Sri N. V. Chandrasekhara Swamy, Assistant Professor, and Sri
R. S. Alwar, Lecturer, have taken their Ph.D degrees from the Indian
Institute of Science, Bangalore.
Sri P. S. Srinivasan, Lel'turer, who was deputed to West Germany
to specialise in Aerodynamics, has since returned and joined this
Department.
Prof. Dr. Ing. K. W. Haug, German expert in our Department
returned home, in September 1964. after completing his contract period.
The Department is appreciative of his contribution.
The following Staff-members joined this Department during the

year 1964-65.
1. S. Rajan, M. E. (Indian Institute of Science, Banga]ore.)
2.
3.

S. Subrahmanyam, M. E. (Indian Institute of Science.)
K. S. Ponnuswamy, B. E. (P. S. G., College~ Coimbatore.)

A Seminar in the form of a number of regular lectures was started
by Dr. S. R. Valluri on the "Inelastic Aspects of Engineering." There
has been lot of encouragement from the other Departments by way of
regular attendance. A series of seminars on advanced engineenng aspects
was conducted in our Department. Although thc Department does
not have any students of its own at present, the project ",ark of a substantial number of the M. Tech students from Mechanical Engineering
Department is being handled by this Department. As in the previous.
years, there has been a considerable amount of research activit.v going
on in the Department, in Fluid Mechanics, Solid Mechanics and
Fracture Mechanics.

