GAMES REPORT FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR 1964-65
The year opened with the realization that the 3rd Inter I.I.T. Meet
was to be hel~ at Madras in Dece.mber. All our efforts were geared
towards makmg the most of playmg the host and to put in a much
better performance than in the previous years .
. . In the Inter Collegiate Tournaments, we again started on a promIsmg note but suffered quite a few set backs later on indicating a
need for more practice and experience.
'
Now for a record of our achievements :-In the Loyola Tennis
Tournaments, our champ Lionel Paul breezed through to a straight set
victory to win the coveted Bertram Trophy, in the singles. Partnering
R. P. Shetty he was runners-up in the doubles. Tn the Jain College
Tournament he again gave a J!ood account of himself, convincingly
winning the singles. The performance of the Ball Badminton team
was" also very creditable. Captained by R. Prabhakaran we were
runners up in the Bertram Tournament and easily won in the Stanley
Medical College Tournament.
Although our other teams did not win any trophies, special
mention should be made of our hockey, football and cricket teams as
they defeated and drew with many strong teams. In hockey we were
placed runners up in the Jain College Tourney.
A scratch athletics team was entered in the Buck Memorial Meet

in which A. Swaminathan raced through to victory in the 110 metres
hurdles and M. Kalappa came first in the hop, step and jump.
The 3rd Inter I. 1. T. Meet at Madras was opened by the Nawab
of Pataudi on 28th December. This year, unlike in the previous years,
there was a sense of keen competition which enlivened the interest in
the meet.
Our performance this year completely eclipsed the tame efl:orts of
the previous year. On the first day our Foot ball team sprang the
biggest surprise of all when they trounced the seemingly invincible
holders-Kharagpur with a 2-1 victory. They then went on to win
the Football Trophy with a convincing victory over Bombay. Outstanding performances in our team were those of Ray, C. M. Das,
L. Tewari and custodian M. H· I. Khan. Our tennis team, in spite of
Paul's decisive victory in the two singles, went down to Kharagpur.
In Volleyball, Madras was to the fore again with a thumping five
game victory over Kharagpur in the finals. lanardhanan and
Goswami proved to be invaluable assets to the team. In Hockey we
were unfortunate to lose to Kharagpur in a replay of the finals, in spite
of a spirited performance by our boys. In Basketball, the superb

