coordination of the Bombay team, enabled them to coast tltroug& fo a
easy win in the finals against Kharagpur after a tough encounter with
Madras. The Bombay Shuttle team had no difficulty in beating
Kharagpur in the finals. Kharagpur, however, had their revenge when
they beat the Table Tennis Holders-Bombay, to win the Tournament.
In Athletics many of the old records fell by the wayside. Our performance, however, far surpassed our expectations. Joshi Paul proved
to be peerless in the 5000, 1500 and 800 metres races, and tbat too,
the latter two in record times. Not only that be also helped our
4x400 metres relay team to victory. M. Kalappa came first in Long
Jump and Hop, step and Jump, and broke the record in the latter.
A. SWaminathan, G. Srikanth, Dandapani. R. Puri and S. A. Aleem,
gave a good account of themselves and were placed in their events.
Swarup of Bombay wound up with the Individual championship. In
Gymnastics, E. K. Olia came first in the Horizontal Bar and was
placed in the other two events. Anantha Rama Iyer was placed in the
Weight Lifting Competition.
The Meet concluded with Kharagpur winning the overall champion.
ship for the third time in succession, Bombay co:ning second and
Madras third. Dr. A. L. Mudaliar presided over the prize distribution
and gave away the prizes.
At the conclusion of the Meet, it was found that the efforts of th~
organisers was not in vain. In this connection I would like to thank
the Sports Committee and all those who helped to make the Me~t a
grand success.
OUf College Sports Meet was held on 30th January. It was quite
an anticlimax after the Inter I. L T. Meet with a disappointing student
attendance. Many old records were broken and Joshi Paul walked
away with the Individual championship. Jhansi ki Rani Housep
(Kaveri Hostel) won the Schroeter Cup for the overall championship:
In the Staff vs. Students tug-of-war inspite of the Registrar's heroic
efforts, the Students once again pulled up the Staff. Dr. Gerhard·
Reichel was the chief guest of the meet and Mrs. Reichel gave away
the prizes.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our Director, Registrar,
President of the Gymkhana and the Physical Training Instructors for
their unstinting help and guidance which went a long way towards
inspiring and encouraging us to greater efforts.

M. KALAPPA

