FINE ARTS 1964--65
The committee for Fine Arts was (ormed soon after the commencement of the academic year '64-'65 with Basu-John Vetteht as the
Secretary.

A Science Fair was conducted in the Institute for the first time.. It
was held along with the inter-1I.T. Meet from the 28th to the 31st of
December. The students who made the various projects, were an
enthusiastic lot and it was perseverence that got the projects working.
Most of the projects were working models. Ravi Kumar's automatic clock was highly impressive. Almost every visitor tried to beat
the Battle of Numbers made by Belani and Jain. Another machine
on . similar lines was made by Achia a.nd Karve. The Tesla Coil by
Datta and Batra always drew large crowds. Naga's Capacitance
Relay was absolutely fool-proof! If only Sundaresan's electronic
counter hadn't stopped working, it would have been possible to report
the total number of visitors.
Our thanks are due to the various members of the staff who helped
us out so often; and to the workshop authorities for placing all the
facilities at our disposal.
.
Photographs and paintings were exhibited along with the Science
Fair. The main contributors were K. R. Mahesh, Olia, and
Purkayastha.
Saha's sketches 'The Eternal Rose' (Nehru) and 'The Eternal
Flame' (Kennedy) were greatly admired. Shettigar's 'Kamala Laxman'
and Santhanaraj's were appreciated.
I.I.T. Delhi also exhibited their photographs. Some of them were
of a high standard. Let us hope that in the coming year, purs will be
as good if not better!
I.I.T. Kharagpur is holding an exhibition in fine arts. We are
sending a few photographs and paintings with the hope that they will
secure prizes ..
I regret to report that we have not yet been able to set
up our own "dark .room." The rooms are nearly ready and it is
our earnest hope that we shall be able to move in soon.
We committee members are thankful to Basu John who with his
inexhaustible energy and quick thinking has helped us' out of many a
tight spot.
I am indeed grateful to the President of our Gymkhana, Professor
Verghese for taking so much interest in our activities aU along and for
all the assistance he has given us.
RAM

KlIMAR.

NAYAR.

