THE PUBLICATION COMMIITEE REPORT '64-'65
This Committee was mainly in charge of bringing out Campastimes,
the Institute Monthly. At the beginning of the year, even before the
Committee had been fonned, the ball had been set rolling; the Com..
mittee then moved in to agument the human resources at the disposal
of Campastimes.
With Prof. S. Sampath as the Staff Member in Charge of Publi..
cations and Sri C. Krishna as Editor of Campastimes, the Committee
met frequently to deliberate on matter pertaining to the above Magazine. Due to the concerted action of the Committee and to the drive
and energy of the Editor in particular, it was possible to bring out a
succession of 'ssues.
Other pUblications with which the Committee was allied were:
The 3rd Inter III Meet Brochure, the Campastimes Special Supplement
and the Institute Annual Magazine.

LITERARY ACTIVITIES REPORT (1964-65)

This year saw the passing aut or our stalwarts in debating and
other literary activities-Ramesh Vaswani, T. S. Ananthu and
V. Siddhartha. From the beginning of the academic year people had
been wondering: "After Vaswani, who?tt and "After Ananthu, who?".
I am glad to report that though these 'masters' were conspicuous by
their absence, we were able to hold our own in the sphere of literary
activities, at home and 'abroad'.
The year started off wit~ a bang when the nrst Gymkhana
programme-a Staff and Students debate-was arranged. The topic for discussion was: "The responsibility for the low standard of education in India
lies with the students and not with the teachers!' This was followed
by the regular cycle of our Annual competitions-debate. group discussion. quiz, etc. etc., at all of which our "champs" (mentioned before)
emerged victors. We also managed to atrange some talks-when we had
Shri Kothamangalam Subbu to JDve us a talk in connection with
Bharathi Day Celebrations and also we had Mr. J. D. Smith of the
British Council for a talk-"Mods and Rockers." In this context. it may
be mentioned that attendance by students was hardly as it should have
been. It is requested that at least in the tuture our friends and colleagues
co-operate with us and take more interest in our activities.

