In Inter-collegiate competitions we were (as usual) very successful.
The first feather in, our cap was the winning of the Inter-Collegiate Quiz
Tropby for the quiz conducted by tbe P. S. O. CoUege of Technology
Coimbatore. I. I. T. was represented by M. Vikram Rao and
R. Neelamegam. Soon after, we added another feather to our cap when
we retained the 'Saturday Evening Club' Trophy for Inter-Collegiate
quiz. This time V. Venkatesan represented I. 1. T. But perhaps,
the major. test came when we had to send in our team for the InterCollegiate Debate atA. M. Jain College, at a time when our stalwarts had
left. This was for the "Shri Mohanmullji Chordja Rolling Cup".
S. P. Shukla and A. Kacker represented the Institute and it gives me
immense pleasure to record that the trophy is now with us. This
achievement was made the more significant from the fact that last year
our 'master-debaters' had been unable to get the rolling cup.
Soon after this we bad our Annual Literary week. Dr. N. Klein's
Trophy for lnter-Collegiate German Recitation was 'bagged' by the
Max Mueller Bhavan when V. Dilipkumar stood first. Unfortunately
this year, we could not retain Dr. M. V. C. Sastry's rolling trophy for
the Inter-Collegiate Group Discussion-the A.C. College of Technology
took it away from us. Our Institute was represented by A. Kacker,
G. Mahaian, G. Ramchandran, V. Khanna and S. P. Shukla. The
Institute Trophy for the A1J-lndia Debate was 'whacked' away by the
Medical College, Bengal. This was the first time our rolling trophy had
gone out of Madras. The speakers from Calcutta were Mahabir Singh
and M. G. Mukerj-!e. The first prize went to P. Chidambaram and the
best Lady-speaker's prize to Sujaya Viswanathan both of Law College.
The second prize went to M. G. Mukerjee of Medical College, Bengal.
Mahabir Singh was placed thirc:,l. I. I. T. was represented by A. Kacker
and C. CamiHus. We also had participants from A. V. U. College of
Engg., Tirupati. None of us, who attended the Inter-Collegiate Quiz
for Rao' Bahadur Ramachandra lyer trophy presented by Sbri
R. Natarajan, can, I am sure, even with an effort, forget the performance
of Venkatesan. who s~emed to know everything there is to know.
M. C. Murthy was the second member of our team. Our team won the
trophy with ease, but it must be remembered that we won it for the first
time, previous winners being Engg. College, Guindy. The highlight
of tbe Literary week was the Inter-collegiate Entertainment Competition
for the trophy presented by Prof. R. G. Narayanamurthy. As many
as seven Colleges participated and 1. 1. T. emerged victoriousagain for
the first time
we had won
this trophy.
Dr. C. P. Ramaswamy Aiyar presided and gave away the prizes.
Counting the number of feather in our cap (almost a full-scale
'injun' chiefs headgear) we have the satisfaction of knowing tbat we
have done well once more and maintained the high position of I. r. T.
in the sphere of Literary Activities in the city Colleges. But there is
always scope for improvement-on the part of our teams, of course, but,
also on the part of our other friends and colleges. Their co~operation

