(d) No tuition fee will be conected from children belonging
to scheduled castes/scheduled tribes.
(e) Full and half fee tuition fee exemption will be granted at the
discretion of the Principal to not more than 20% of the total number
of students on rolls in each of the standards, on the 318t July of the year,
provided the cost of this concession does not, ;1t any time, exceed 10%
of the full exemption. For this purpose the total number of students
on rolls will be exclusive of the total number of students exempted
under paras (a) to (d).
6. The normal school year will be from the lst of May of the
year to the 30th April of the next year. The number of working days
in the year will be 220, comprising a total of 1,200 instructional hours,
excluding the time spent on examinations, games and sports. The
summer vacation will be 50 days. The autumn break, coinciding with
the Dasara holidays will be of 10 days, and the winter break will also
be 10 days ending on 31st December.

1. The syllabus and textJbooks for Standards VI to VIII are
prescribed by the Ministry of EducatioJl; for Standards IX to XI the
syllabus and text-books are prescribed by the Central Board of Secondary
Education, New Delhi. Students of the 11th Standard will have to
appear for the All India Higher Secondary Examination and those who
pass the examination are eligible for admission to the degree classes in
Arts and Science colleges or the first year classes in professional colleges.
A wide range of 16 elective subjects in Humanities and Sciences is proJ
vidzd for in the Higher Secondary classes. Provision hilS been made
for the following elective subjects in the Central School, Madras-36:
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biolog~. History, Geography,
Economics and English language and literature. Sewing, Knitting and
Embroidery will be the craft for girl students. Electrical gadgets and
their repairs will be the craft for boys.
8. The medium of instruction will be English; Hindi will be the
second language an:1 Sanskrit, the third language.
M. K.

NATARAJAN

Principal.

