3
t e
j u die e
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

(Letters to the Editor may be handed in to Shiva (229 N), Bucket' (225
Ga) or Chandra"ouli (46 N).)
Sir,
You interviewed Joy Thomas, the co-orQinator of Tintoretto, but
I felt that you should have interviewed the winners.
Chelluri.

Godavari.
(We interviewed Joy to enlighten you on the g~me.)

*******
CO ME SEPTEMBE R ••••• COME FESTEMBE R
------~-~-~~----

" In many a festival, it has been the vahquished, not the victor
who has carried off the finest spoil'S."

This can be sa id of the 16 -

member lIT team that took part in REC Trichy's FESTEMBER.
" More sober{?), less class than MG, no Pro shows, chikna Scene
not as gQod(?)as MG. The fare from 5 of the 25 colleges participating
was fair. The campus is huge and barren with the scene of activity being
the 'barn'. Organisation waS good and lIT would do well to take some tips
from RECT concerning Hospitality and good

.

"

relat~ons.

A mostly new-look team kept the IIT(M) flag flying high and retained
thellT shield

The QUIZ(fooyong,shi\ ram) GUES5WORD(v;su,shivaram),

CALL MY BLUFF(vasu,shivaram,fooyong)were cakewalks.N.Shankar got a
placing for his limericks.Our boys zapped the REC guys by solving their
Crossword puzzle in 10 mts.flat.
Fi~e

arts waS smooth

.sail~ng

for RECT aided by Parthiban(ex-IIT(M)

arts sec.78-79)."Beauty is altogether in the eye of the beholder." For
IIT(M) all present were beholders except the judges.
Cultural events proved to be a washout because
1. They didn't like it tne way we like it •• manoranjan •• as

U

like it.

2. We couldn't adapt ourselves to 'Ad-apt'.
3. We were too dumb for 'Mutactics'.
4.We didn't

w~nt

to dance to their tune in ' Contradanza '.

Our music performance reached dizzy 'heights but apparently the
judges didn't suffer from hypsophobia and weren't affected.Kati
strummed his way to the best instrumentalist prize in 'Sultans of
Swing' while 'Woman in Love' (usha sundaram) c,rooned. he.r way to the best
vocalist prize.lIT{M) was placed third in light as well as western
One remembers Maud Muller ,
"Of all pad words of tongue or ·3n,
The saddest are these, 1I It might have been... n n
but for the judgBs beleiving in
tt

the only way to get rid of temptation is to yield to it."
ITllmmnnmmnr.tr:YfMlTmrn

mmmmmmmmmm

~tisi••

