Vol. VII, No.2

liT Madras, November, 1968

EI1terfail2111e11f or Bust

!

The Inter-Hostel Entertainment Competition for the Engineering
Unit Trophy went off with a real bang-to be more precise, with a lot
of bangs, the left-overs of Diwali crackers. Our IIT audience obviously
believes in keen and enthusiastic participation. Often, the entertainment that came from the back turned out more spicy and interesting
than what came off the stage. Vocal' Music', Instrumental Music,
you name it, they had it. Whether it was a question of trumpets, or
plates and spoons pinched from their hostel messes, or just a matter of
their very powerful vocal chords, one cannot but admire their uninhibited enthusiasm.
The first to' go on stage was Jamuna Hostel, with a pretty good
tune from MuraU and Kasturi. 'With a little bit of help from his
friends', the show would have been more entertaining. The good start
petered out into a B grade puppet show that lacl(ed lively dialogue.
'The Necklace', as Ram Sitaram kept insisting, 'was preposterous, was
ridiculous' • Things, however, brightened up a bit with a harmonica
piece by the Asst. Warden, P. A. K. Murthy.
Obviously Jrdius Caesar is popular with IITians, seeing that two
hostels tried to beat the old Bard at his own game. Godavari Hostel
.came up with ingenious costuming and some pretty good gags. George
Verghese on the Piano was impressive. In contrast, the songs that
followed were a bit shaky-but Mr. Asthana impressed the crowd with
his confidence. The Zulu dance was a waste of make-up.
The bright spot of Saraswati's half-hour was pop-tunes from Kelly
and Solomon. Drunks and Deans of lunatic asylums came up with good
,gags once in a way.
The musically-inclined Krishna Hostel was a big hit, with Vijayan
'& Co. dominating the scene. Unfortunately their taste in skits was
not as admirable. It was unsportsmanly to bring in personal references
into competitions of this type.
'
K"btlldl'(l1l

The Judges

As their own M. C. pointed out, Mandakini is obviously sparsely
populated with people-and talent.
.
It moved many a parental heart when the Ladies ~ostel emcee
ushered in her group on the second day of the Entertamment. But
'the heroes at the sidelines were made, like ambition, • of sterner stuff'.
-Despite a continuous volume of background noise, and inefficient use
,of the P. A. system by the performers the L. H. came up with good
·Carnatic music. Chaya Rao was adjudged the best emcee.
The freshers tried pretty hard to retain their trophy and almost
:succeeded. The Cheeky' youngster, T. V. Krishna, really deserved
his best actor prize. Operation APE easily outshone all the other skits
,in the whole programme.
Narmada came up with a well co-ordinated skit about a man who
Jost his sense of co-ordination. V. Srinivasan's ticket selling sold well
with the audience. Snappy is the word to describe' the Magnificent
-Side Kick' and Joshi & Co. Chandrasekhar and Srinivasan pulled off a
-brilliant two-man mountebank' Modi Mastan' sideshow.
The prize-winners, Ganga Hostel, were the best by a long shot.
'The credit of having a well·knit programme goes solely to them. Roy,
.Sanyal and Amir Ahmed were terrific as the three cool blind mice.
Kaveri Hostel was sleepy.
I

25 P.

An Evening in Oat
One couldn't decide how to describe that evening and, after groping
for superlatives in Queen's English, turned to German and promptly
called it fvzmderbar. And that appropriately summed up the debut
by the Germans that evening. Making full use of available resources
and, talent, they showed the' Ah-aIl-crap' IITians what organisation
and enthusiasm could do to an entert:\~nment programme.
Believe it or not, they were nervous too, about audience reaction.
Especi.lllyafter witnessing a I Family Size' dosage of audience participation during the Inter Hostel Entertainment Competition. The more
optimistic among them, like Dr. Hans Wagner, were still sure of their
show 110t being a washout.
If you can't beat them, make them join
you,' was the policy. The quizzes ~hd games framed by Mr. Conen
at aZ. provided ample scope for the audience to join in.
It was Dr. Pandalai who proposed the idea and Dr. 'Wagner
who said yes. And all of them who worked. Work on the show
started three weeks before the Evening. The eagerness of the newer,
younger Germans, and the verve of the housewives provided all that
was needed. The brainier type sat together to decide on the
probability of how many would get all their guesses in their game
correct. They reported: one gets all right and fourteen get one
wrong. Funnily enough this is just what happened.
Dr. Klein was the Bob Hope of the evening. • We are sure the
evening will go off well because the Meenambakkam Observatory has
assured us heavy showers in an hour,' he quipped for a start. He
continued right through the programme as the quiz master.
The quizzes were well interpersed with a variety of other items
like Waltzing by the Bocks, Swinging by the Henkels, etc. The results
of the quizzes brought to light certain points: (1) There are Indian
couples more efficient and less efficient than German couples. (2)
People from our Workshops have 110 concept of dimensions. (3) There
are members of the Senate who are more resourceful than some of our
Gymkhana Reps.
Mr.' Peter, after a number of unsticcessful attempts (much earlier
than he ought to have) finally had his way and blurted out a vo~e of
thanks. This brought the programme to a close and left the audlence
yearning for more.
(Photograph on p. 8)
I

Though slow in starting, the music from
Tapti Hostel was well worth waiting forDaryl Cordeiro and party with their impressive Electric Guitars and drums were almost
professional. A good sprinkling of Mad,
Playboy and Reader's Digest jokes livened up
Clod Barrow. It was a pity that Hyder Ali
Khan did not use his good powers of pantomime with better taste.
With a little more co-operation from the
audience and a little more practice by some of
the participants, it could easily ha7,e been
much better. The acid test of a person's
entertaining capability seems to be how well
he (or she!) stands the formidable booing.
To sum up, it was a pretty good show.

-M. C.PAL
D)'C. RAO

" Appnvoo"
T. V. Krishna

