2

CAMPASTIMES

----------------~-------------

AMERICAN PROFESSORS VISIT
THE INSTITUTE

CARICATURE

Professor:; P •. S. Mye~ and.o. A. Uyehara
of the UniversIty of WISCOnSin visited IlT
and delivered a series of lectures on Combustion Engineering between 28-10-1968 and
2-u-1968. Both the professors are recipients
of the Benjamin-Smith-Reynolds' ,Medal and'
the .Horning Medal. Prof. Myers is the
PresIdent-elect of SAE for the coming year.

[ November, 1968

Dr. N. V. C. VVRITBS
PRoM GERMANY
Dr. Chandrasekhara Swamy, who left for
Germany in summer, has written us a short
account of things around him.
A portion of his letter reads: 'We are
undergoing a fast language course in this
village, which is very aptly nick-named
Spracheniible. We will finish our course on
8th October and break-up, to go to our various
Universities.
'This is a small village, where we are
living, with about 40-50 houses. The
popUlation is about 500, of which we are 80
Goethe students. There are also about 1000
cows here! The people are &l'mers and
carpenters. Life is pretty dull and uneventful. W'c are, however, looking forward to
ollr stay in the'Technical Universities, where
we hope to do some useful work. But I must
admit that the language teaching in Goethe
Institute is something remarkable ! '
Dr. Swamy scnds his best wishes to all
of lIS.
-Campasthnes

Prof. P. S. Myers

, These Professors are outstanding educators
and have inspired many students and young
researchers to success in their engineering
careers. Although active consultants for
several industries and governmental agencies,
their primary concern is with the students,
who are of different nationalities. From
researches into the vagaries of engines and
combustion, their activities extend to other
fields as weU, like heat transfer during welding,
and modern energy conversion techniques.

I'wf. O. A. Uyehnra

This is illustrative of their flexibility to the
changing patte1'lls and criteria. These Professors have adapted themselves to the attitudes
of young people from various nations. The
greatest testimony to their work seems to be
their students who are spread all over the
world. It is with an abiding interest to meet
their past students and help their institutions,
that these Professors are visiting our country.
Campostimu

N6'WS.

Joshy Paul Kallungal
Not many people can boast of winning a
Merit Scholarship twice and holding two
Inter lIT and four Institute track records.
To: Joshy Paul Kallungal (who is arso the
Institute Sports Sec.) goes that distinction.
Joshy first made the IITian scene in
December '64 when liT Madras played host for
the fourth Inter liT Meet. Forgetting his
aching ankle, which at one stage threatened to
keep him off the tracks, Joshy ran away with
the 800, 1500 and 5000 metres establishing
records in the 800 and I soo. He was also a
member of the volleyball team that won the
title that year. On the tracks he was the most
outstanding performer for IIT Madras. Illness
kept him out of the Bombay Meet and he was
unable to reproduce his earlier form in Delhi
last year. Nevertheless, his records still stand.
Joshy's performance earned him quite a few
admirers. To the campus kiddies he became
an instant hero. He was the o:fficial authority
and guest star at the cricket game outside
Prof. R. K. Gupta's house. When he was
forced to take up residence" in the 'Warden's
quarters in second year, one rather dictatorial lecturer of the fair sex suddenly
developed a soft cornel' for him. Nevertheless, when he attempted to correct one of her
mathematical blunders, she silenced him
with-' Joshy Paul, you might be good at
rUlming but you aren't good at Mathematics!'
(How is that for a one-track mind ?)
As Sports Sec., Joshy has done a lot of good
work this year. He has played a big part in
moving the powers to enter lIT in the
Inter-University tournaments this year.
The picture isn't quite so rosy all around.
His animosity towards the hostel showers is
well known. The result is that he doesn't
get under them as frequently as he should.
One evening Joshy returned bone-dry from the
bathroom claiming to have had a • body bath '
even though there wasn't the slightest trace
of moisture 011 his soap or towel ! During his
schooldays in Bangalore, Joshy held the unsurpassed record of 65 bathless days I
Joshy has also been known to be excessively
fond of some of his clothes. At first it was
a blue T shirt (something like Ramappa's).

Tile Pizotograpl, sillY/OS, jrom"L to R.:
Dr. Kalic\as (Chem.), Dr. N.V.C. SwolUY (App.
I
l'vlech.)
Dr. Alwor (App. Mech.), Dr. Ramdas (Chem.)
Dr. Werner (Director, Goethe Institute)
Dr. Rndhakrishna (Mech.), Mr. Bhat (Elec.)
Dr. Abdul Khader (Civil), Mr. Sundaresan (Met.)

These days it's a green pant that's seen a lot
of Joshy but hasn't yet seen the cleaner. He
usually wears it for one long spell (nobody's
tried counting yet), gives it a one day 'rest' .
and it is ready for another spell of service.
On the waiting list is a blood-red terylene
shirt that Joshy got as a birthday present.
Joshy is quite .a prncticaljoker. Together
with his old crony and comrade-in-crime
Raju, he has pulled off many a brilliant hQax.
Topping the list is the time Raju and Joshy
played marriage broker for • Pop' Raphael.
Another of their works is the notice that
appeared in ali hostels on April 1st last year.
I t ran thus- .;
• AU General Secretaries and Class Representatives nre requested to assemble, ill
Taramani Hostel at 5 p.m. to decide about the
hostel allotment for next year.'
B. V. A. RAO,
(Chairman, COllncil of Wards1lS).
However, : none of Joshy's numerous activities cover the cultural field. He is no'
culture-vulture, and unlike all pseudos he
doesn't bother to hide it. Once, Cordeiro
approached J08hy with-' Heard this one
Joshy? There was this colonel, who decided
his regiment needed some culture and so he
arranged for a lecture on " Keats" . When
all the rugged soldiers were assembled, the
Colonel proceeded to introduce the speaker
and the topic-" Gentleman" he said, c' it has
come to the attention of the Colonel that
most of you do not know what a keat is .••• '"
Quoth Joshy-' What's a kent? '
After obtaining his degree, Joshy hopes to
go abroad for higher studies. Hard-working
and intelligent as he is, he is bound to do
well anywhere, especially when he is able to
devote all his attention to his studies.
C.M.

