4

CAMPASTIMES

Letters to the Editor
QUick Before it • .

EDITORfAL
WHERE TO START?
Everyone is for improving the Gymkhana.
The activities of its various committees, in
particular of that committee for which 'work •
has had to be made to justify its existence, has
attracted much banal comment. The more
muddled the structure of our Gymkhana gets,
the clearer becomes the case for a radical
change in its set-up.
The Gymkhana has faced many problems:
that of increasing number of committees,
floating clubs, circles-all of which have
totalled an exploding number of representatives. This fragmentation of responsibilities
has less advantages than disadvantages; for
apart from desired action, organisation and
communication are involved.
Is an· improvement possible? Possible or
not, the case for it is so compelling that we
have already taken steps towards it. It is
encouraging to note that the General Secretary is aware of the problem, and intends
remedial measures which will go a long way
in stabilising the existing set-up. The Executive Committee has been constituted, and
the publications group reconstituted.
It is hoped that the response to the
thoughtful recommendations for an Editorial
Board, instead of an elected publications
Committee, will be positive. The switchover
to a Board consisting of nominated members
will represent a further step forward in our
• Reformation • programme.

ENTERTAINMENT
Perhaps not more than the selected few
who are responsible for providing entertainment (to the IITian crowd) can realise the
difficulties involved in putting up a good
show. That there is very little reason for
booing from begin!ling to end, is lmown even
to the 'booer'. One would think that the
OAT harbours secret evil spirits which slip
into IITians when they enter the place as
audience j and dictate their mood: 'Boo, or
you're a goner I' Let the I1Tian do it-but
let him also, as he might sometimes say,
I have a heart, yar 1'

THE MEET
IIT Madras has always tried hard-to avoid
the fifth place. Considering that a good number
of our sportsmen do not wish to take part in
the meet at Kanpur because they 'will miss
the holls', we can only pray for a miracle.
"

0'" .,.,,1111: t1I1RIC. ••• •

Preparations are going on· for the Kanpur Meet.

Sir,
I would like to convey to Campastimes
and its readers a brief account of a factual
incident which took place during the second
day of the Inter-Hostel Entertainment at the
OAT. At the height of the incessant booing,
blowing of trumpets, clanging of plates, and
bursting of fire crackers, which formed such
a conspicuous feature of the proceedings, I
heard a voice from behind me demanding why all this racket was being made, and
suggesting that the performers be given a
hearing. On turning around to see who jt
was, expressing what was obviously a minority
view, I found that it was llOt a resident of
our campus at all but of one of the neighbouring villages. In view of the fact that
these intruders at our functions have already
come in for mention in Compastimes (for
example ill • Over 11 cup of aye aye tea' in
the last issue), I wish that we devote ourselves with renewed urgency to the effort of
keeping them away. Who knows, their
dangerous ideas of decency and fair play may
pollute the atmosphere of our Institute entertainments. Or they may start to copy the
unique and original tradition that we have so
carefully built up.
Yours etc.,
RAJARAM NITYANANDA.

On Being Frivolous
Dear Editor,
It is disturbing to be told that' we h..'lVe
llot evolved a philosophy of life' (at twenty).
It is agonizing to know that' we imagine ourselves to be 11lartyrs'. It is shameful to hear
that 'it is a stigma to be serious'. It is
maddening to find that • we have nn obsession
for the frivolous' . It is a relief to know that
we do have advantages like 'some nice movie
every week where lots of people let off lots of
things'. It is appetizing to acknowledge that
(we are nearly starved of the right kind' of
companionship' .
But it is sad to find a young man going out
of his mind.
Tsk! Tsk!
Ever thine.

K. S.

LOGANATHAN.

[November, 1968

By the Way
The evenings are drawing in. From time
to time the weather turns grey and cloudy, and
there is a vague drizzle which suddenly turns
into a downl'0ur, and as suddenly subsides.
In fine, Novem~r is here ....•. and the lack
of gunpowder, treason and plot is compensated
in suspense and tension, if not in entertainment value, by the approaching examinations.
But none of that now. The idea is to take
our minds off these lurking horrors, not to
brood on them.-

•

*

•

*

On 'On Being Serious'

(COllt;lIlled 011 p. 7, col. I)

*

The other day Professor A. L. Krishnan
gave a fascinating talk on • The Meaning of
Tragedy • under the aegis of the Department
of Humanities. In the brief compass of .an
hour, he could l,ot cla~ol'ate his analysis of
the form and natUre of high tragedy, but eVen
his brief exposition of tragedy as interpreted
by Aristotle was full of meaning and significance. His concluding remarks on the meat:l~
ing of tragedy, and its quality of elevating
rather than depressing the reader, carried
complete conviction. His frequent allusions
to the great tragedies (he confined himself to
the Greek Tragedy and Shakespeare) were
carefully explained, so that our ignorance of
such literature proved 110 handicap. but indeed a privilege for having foul"ld so learned a
guide to introduce us to it. His allusions
were neyer made for the display of erudition,
but bore out admirably the characteristics of
tragedy as he saw them, and brought out in a
purely incidental manner the beauty of the
originals and the ~wcwme extent of his understanding of them. Altogether it was a
wonderful experionce, and all of you who find
such things interesting will no doubt look forward as eagerly as I do to his next talk, on
• The Meaning of Comedy'. I hope I am not
mistaken in venturing tbe opinion tllat the
Humanities Depal~tment will find considerable
response from us ,to such activities.
$

Sir,
The willingness of Mr. B. Venkateswarnn
to • grant' this, that and the other does not
mitigate the fact that his views (Letters to
the Editor, Oct. '68) are tiresome, repetitious
and hackneyed. I for one fail to see where all
this frenzied harping on seriousness has led
him: the letter seems to be written primarily
to con~ince B. Venkateswaran, and others
whom it may concern, of the seriousness of the
said B. Venkateswar~, rather than to engage,
entelUin or elevate the IITian at large.
1.disagree with the view that the ' serious
and intellectual young men' here practice the
• loathsome hypocrisy' of trying to I pass
themselves off as lighthearted chaps '; To
begin with, this implies that they all behave
in the same way; but as a general rule intellectuals do not move with the mob-they
maIte their decisions on an individual basis.
Secondly, the combination of seriousness and
intelligence is not inevitable : the combination
of lightheartedness and intelligence is just as
natural. What exactly does 'serious • mean?
If it means refraining from levity when matters of great moment are at hand, there is no
controversy: we are all serious enough on
occasion. But·if it signifies a twenty-four
hour state of mind, I suggest the word
• gloomy' or (depressed' or 'pessimistic,'
and freely confess that I avoid such specimens

*

The Model General Assembly at the ·Stella
Maris College was a fair success. And considering that this was their first attempt at
holding an inter-collegiate function, with
the gates thrown open to the men's colleges,
it was more than that: it was a significant
achievement. To those who have tired of the
usual inter-collegiate melee of debate after
weary debate on the same old topics, and
quiz after hackneyed quiz with the same old
questions, the change was welcome and refreshing. I heartily applaud the initiative and
enthusiasm which characterised this attempt,
snd I hope we will see a lot more of it in the
years to come. Not only in other colleges
but in our own campus as well.

~

•

News drifts lily way that some of the films
shown ill the Open Air Theatre are
considered unsuitable. I would be the last
to hold all of them up as shining examples
of the triumph of aesthetic and technical
perfectioll, but a few mild words of protest
are not out of place. Nobody gets a preview
of the :£iL-n to be shown, and even if he could,
the time schedule of the IITian precludes
the Secretary from so doing. Further, even
if he did get the said preview, he could
hardly presume to pass judgment over the
varied taste of our two thousand. Morally
objectionable material is supposed to be deleted by the Censorship Board anyway_
Grouses about unsuiwbility subsequent to
censorship necessarily represent personal points
of view. Due deference should be given to them.
but this is afree country and those who disagree
are at liberty to do so. If an occasional extra
inch of leg, or soine such similar peccadillo,
is going to draw! alarmed squawks from the
audience, we are' not the adults we thought
we were. The tendency to overprotect is as
bad as any oth.er restrictive tendency. Anybody who is old enough to stand on his o\vn
legs in a figurative sense, and decide to come
here and study technology and stay in the
hostel without his nanny to look after him, is
also old enough to decide whether a given
form of entertainment is C suitable ' from his
point of view or not. And having decided.
to act on this decision. It is quite time we
reasserted our right and duty to think for
ourselves.

-8.

PARAMllSHWARAN.

