can see that the world is not all a stage, but
just a con~lomeration of sidies. Not only
that ei,ther, If we are to believe these chappies,
there can be no emotions like friendship, love
etc, etc~ and everything of human relationships
boils down to-either you arc a sidie or
somebody ;s your sidie-this is what puzzles
me and many wiser men t

.

of 14ye-,4ye

5

CAMPASTIMES

November, 1968}

7iq

The weather is just pippin right ll~W as.l
sit down to pen this cup of tea .. It IS as l~
one has drunk the milk of paradIse, on honey
dew fed and finally washed it all down with
a deep draught from !he ?ld fount~in of
youth. It may be a 'b.lt thlck. but .m my
imagination I can perceive a chap takmg the
afternoon off to catch a couple of hours'
snooze running into his Professor. who pats '
him o~ his back and tells him not to worry
for he knew how exactly he felt.
However the weather may not last,
according t~ the meteorologists, who say that
a I depression' is moving in. fro~ the Bay. of
Bengal-may be it is somcthlDg In connection
with the Terminal Exams.
The last issue of CatnjUlstirlWs hit the campus
on a bright Saturday not long a~o. I took
my copy and tooled into the Dinmg room to
muse over it there, over a bottle of Coc,a Cola.
Soon I was perusing that magnum e~lSt1e on
Sidekicks. A casual observer, studymg me,
would have felt that the makers of Coca Cola
had fallen in line with Solvay'S arguments
and had ammoniated the beverage before
carbonating it. In other words, I choked on
the Coke 1 I mean it's one thing to say that
my views are diametrically opposite ~o
those of the authors and perhaps, theosophically spea~dng, they and I didn't vibrate ~n
the same plane or that our aUJ'as ,,'e),'e ~ot In
the same colour, but" ies quit~ another th.mg to
run into articles of that sort 111 Campastmtes.
The trouble with using Carnpastimes f~[
personal nttacks is that in no time at all It
catches on and spreads like the much ta.lkedabout wildfire. Just supposing that the
chaps who ~'Cre at the receiving end of the
jokes in • Sidekic~ '. dec~ded to sit ~own a.nd
each wrote an article saymg that ~ lIttle b~rd
whispers in his ear that the combmed brams
of the three authors could be comfortably
packed into the inlt container. of one o! the
smaller variety of commercially awulable
fountain pens; and that a loo~t at one o~ them
shook his belief that Man was Nature s last
word; and that the last time he saw a. fac,e
like that of the second, Tarzan was feed 109 It
bananas; and that he didn't want to say
much about the third bloke because the poo,r
fellow was handicapped from birth with a
concrete block, which served as a cheap
imitation head, or things along those lines,
see where it lands CatnjUlStimes. In no time
at all it would deteriorate into the level of
those cheap trashy mags, which every week
brings news of what such-alld-such popular
matinee idol had been doing to what's-hername screen actress and things like that.
The article served no purpose-it just
brought out the news that the Institu~e had
sidekicks (it took three of them to Write the
stuff too) and ..• and what? .•• that's
alII Moreover it's a sad day when people
have to insult their friends to impress others,
which is a method not advocated by Dale
Carnagie anyway.
The authors have some terl'ibly wrong
notions also. It's not true that everyone
who has had his education in 'Public Schools,
wants to be an Englishman, and goes around
whispering 'Oh I To be in England' and
things like that I Speaking English with the
correct pronunciation, accent etc., doesn't
mean that persons who do so go around
saluting the Union Jack nrst thing in the
morning and whisper ,'God Save the Queen'
after their nightly prayers. What's more,
according to these chappies Bill Shakespeare
was all wrong when he gassed about the
whole world being a stage. Ha! they say,
funny fellow this Shakespeare I! Anybody

...

.

It is on very sound principles that lightning conductors have been placed on top of
the Administration Building. I wanted to call
them a blot on the landscape but there nre so
many of them there that it is the landscape
itself I A Civil Engineer chap tells me that
one such conductor is enough to keep lightning
out of mischief within a radius of three miles.
I am not sure on the figures myself but I suppose these Civil Engineers know what they
are talking about-after all it is these fellows
\·...ho go around putting these eye-sores on
the buildings. Maybe after a few centuries
the building may collapse out of sheer old age,
it may be bombed out during a war, it ,may
even be torn down bv rioters of some sort;
but one thing is prettY sUl'e-lightnin' ain't
gonna touch our li'l main block.

*

*

*

It is generally believed outside the campus
that the tastes of our guys is as highbrow as
they come. Boy! Are they mistaken 1 Therc
wns this Jazz movie show and fellows were
going around behaving as if Darwin had come
looking for the missing link and everybody
wanted to qualify_ And after that when,
in the feature film, Jame.s Stewart came on
filling Injuns with lead (Cheyenne Autumn)
there was a roar of approval. Again, in I The
Man Who Knew Too Much' when James
Stewart grabs the assassin, there was the uproar associated, with the • four anna seats'.
Some highbrow taste, hunh, preferring James
Stewart's antics to Dave Brubeck's jazz I

•

•

•

During the Inter-Hostel Entertainment
Competition, though OU1' behaviour when the
Girls' hostel came on wasn't exactly what Sir
'Walter Raleigh would have recommended, in
general the amount of yelling and booing has
come down. Keep this up and who knows,
one day in the near future we may even end
up with our old image of being the City's
gentleman-college!

•

•

From Here aiJd There
The • Administrative Block'
(A.B.)
of our Institute, overlooking the library
and the ladies' hostel and having the
look of the L.1.C. is fast getting ready. 1
have seen the construction of it going on for
years and a friend of mine once told me that
it would be ready for the Convocation. He
was clever in not mentioning which Convocation he had in mind. It is yet to be seen
what plans the authorities have regarding
filling up its basement area, since left to itself
as everybody knows, it will become another
parking place for the Bullets and Volkswagens.
In this connection, I have my own suggestions to make. Following the example of
L.I.C., we can have showrooms of some of the
important companies in the city. However it
may not be liked by all, as it will become
another shopping centre where most of the
shops are open~d only to be closed again after
a few months of service. The next alternative
will be to adopt the Safire pattern and we can
call it, either ',Ten Gems' or.' 17 Jewels'
where between 10 p:m. and 1 a.m. the conti11ental dish, Lizl or Zizy, dances to the tune of
Madras-36, on Hn those nights when we do not
think of a pe~iodical the next morning. .

..

lIT's saddest edifice is the one foot thick
, Berlin Wall' recently constructed by the
Institute, separating H.S.B. 142 and the computer room from the rest of the world.
There was a time when our IlTans sitting in
the back rows of their class-rooms used to
appreciate the works of God, when there was
not much to appreciate on the black board, by'
looking out in admiration at those open corridors, the , tamarind tree and the popular
C.L.T., where vital issues like • Whether
India needs Military dictatorship or Women
dictatorship' were decided in an hour's time.
There was also a time when some of the boys
used to let themselves free, unnoticed by the
concerned lecturer, taking advantage of the
open corridors. Today with the change in
the situation, I~m afraid we will have to think
of building a Iri,emodal under this g[een~~od
tree, if someone attempts freedom, adoptlllg
the old techniques.

•

The Institute Gymkhana is an Institute
affair. 'rhe statement is ridiculously redundant, yet not too many people notice that
(the gymkhana's being an institute affair that
is, not the redundancy of the statement.)
The idea is that the staff members are as
much members of it as the students are.
Then how come for the Gymkhana Inauguration there was no staff participation? I don't
mean that the Professors should organize
themselves and do a little Bhai-la. or something along those lines to amuse us, but a bit
of Veena strumming or vocal exercise on stage
could have gone to show the old one-for-a11
and all-for-one spirit.
At the Gymkhana Inauguration another
thing I noticed \vas that the External Affairs
Committee has been renamed as the Social
Service Committec, which, I suppose, means
that from now on, its members, instead of
going around having affairs outside the
campus, will be sent to the villages and slums
to teach young mothers how to bathe their
babies, maybe do a little road building and
things on those lines.
That, I suppose, is all the news and I had
better sign off. Don't despair, for as the
hero of a play once said-when the fields
are white with Daisies, I will return.
Best of luck in the exams.
-GOPE.

K. SRIDHAR ROLLING TROPHY
A Rolling Trophy for proficiency in sports,
either cricket or bridge, has been offered by
Shri C. R. Krishna Rao, father of K. Sridhar,
B. Tech. Shri J{. Sridhar who did his B.
Tech. here passed away 80011 after he joined
the M. Tech. course
The Trophy will commemorate his close
association with the Institute.

-Catnpanime$ Nervs.

IANCHA; NANDt\, KAlLA,
GoWRI
They, you see, are l1ames of dames
They do not play sizzy games
It is a fact, it is a shame
That deadly . girls have deadly names.
The buses here finely maintained
Sometimes at the P.O.detaincd
Generally at the BSB retained
All the reasons not explained.
Our Velach~rians who once were banned
From travelling thro' our deer land
FOWld the buses quite surplus,
They now travel with children plus.
The guys at Kaveri pretty smart,
Board the bus to the Jamuna start,
The bus lea~es full-loaded
Just half·a-gozen foot boarded.
When Stirling Moss is in the seat
Fiats and :Heralds never compete .
The going is great, the going is fun
If you catch the bus without a run.
Sometimes, a Jaffery-charge you make
Lest the bus you shouldn't take
Try once by calling, • Halt, choo ..
• Jaisa Tha' applies to drivers too.
Hark, now I hear that distant noise
• The bus is coming' says a voice,
Alas, it isn't to your liking
It's just that Prasad mobiIdng.
Now Lobo and Roy board the bus
Lo I begins a lot of fuss
Lobo finds the ceiling low
Roy finds the bus go slow.
Pray, tell me, what of us
Without the usual IlT bus
Saturdays, minus matinee flicks,
Or to Marina just for kicks.
-PLAGO.

