6

CAMPASTIMES

Sportlo/io
Hockey

KUMBHAT MEMORIAL CUP MISSED I

Having beaten Stanley Medical 2-0
itz the replay, lIT went down 0-1 to
Christian in the finals.
For the first time in lIT's history, the
Hockey team entered the final of the Jain
College tournament but ended up runners,
losing to Christian College by a solitary goal
in a clean and keenly contested final.
This year lIT entered two teams,
• Maroons' and 'Yellows'. The C Yellows'
made an early exit losing to Vaishnav 0-1 after
getting a walk-over from Madras Medical
earlier. The 'Maroons', (otherwise the A
team) got past Law College with a solitary
goal by Abraham Verghese after putting up a
drab display. Meeting Kilpauk Medical in
the next round we won 2-0, our scorers
being Allen and Verghese. Our victory that
day was made easier by the Medicos frequently
losing their tempers at any decision adverse to
them.
Getting a walk-over from Pachaiyappa's in
the next round, we ran into last year's runnersup, Stanley Medical, in the semi-finals. We
started off in great style with Verghese netting
a goal early in the first half. In the second
half, Stanley Medical equalised after a defence lapse thus earning a replay.

Basketball Team

MORON IN liT
A moron whose name I cannot tell
Thought of ~his place as downtrodden hell
His brother was quite a smart little guy
.
Who felt he would see this place or die
Our moron grumbled as any 01' chap would
I'll ditch this blighter if I possibly could.'
Kids are too smart for lIT guys
He gave in at last (Now, forget his size)
Avenues here, pelhi and Bonn,
Flashed past them, and soon were gone
, Bonn Avenue appeals to me
Every tree is a rare beauty ,
Gajendra circle in the centre lay
I

/lEY! YOIl ~.()I
.A • 0 1 IN ElliOl

/

The replay next morning brought out the
best in the lIT team. Overnight dew had
made the field slippery, yet we adapted
ourselves quicker than our opponents
did and went ahead 1-0 when Gill made no
mistake with a penalty stroke. The match
was safely in our hands when a gift goal came
our way thro' Abraham Yerghese.
The final, played the same evening, pitted us
against our old rivals, Christian College.
MCC, fresher than we were, went into the attack
from the word' Go' and got the winning goal
thro' their University star, M. S. Monappa.
Putting everything we had into the game, we
tried to equalise but the Christian defence was
hard to beat. Christian had the major share of
the exchanges and kept us pinned to our half
repeatedly. Anyway, we did well to restrict
their goal-hungry forwards to a solitary goal.
Alas! it was this goal that separated us from
the coveted Cup.
Basketbal1
Our hats off to the BB Team. The team is
one which has won laurels on almost as
many occasions as there have been.
This year the bunch of 'flubber men' is
being led by M. S. Venkateshwaran, a nippy
forward.
George Verghese is the right winge.-. He
has captained IIT for the past two years.
With his experience, he has shown dexterity
both in the forward and defensive line.
Left winger Abraham, tall (and tough I), is
endowed with fine judgment and shooting
capacity.

[November, 1968
On the defensivedine are Ramakrishnan and
Kesavan, who have always withstood the
brunt of the opponent's attack.
Suresh Bhandari, Parthasarathi, Chillar and
Shiv Shankar are the other four skillful
players who complete the team.
Coach Philips as well as the players are for
team work rather than individual skill.
Tennis
Our tennis team has won all its matches in
the inter-collegiate tournament so far, in the
current year. They have beaten in succession,
Vivekananda (3-0), Presidency (3-0), M.LT.
(walk-over) and Christian (2-0). Engineering
College and A. C. Tech. are to be met shortly.
The fact that our team players (1. P. Ramappa,
R. K. Menon, J. C. Giri and V. Srikrishnan)
have not lost a single match in the intercollegiate is heartening. Particularly creditable
is our straight victo.ry over Christian. The
SCores in this parti~ular tie were: Ramappa
beat Bangara 10-6, Menon beat Shivaram
10-6.

Rowing
Indrajit Ray won the Junior Sculls and the
Senior Fours Event in the 'V'illter Regatta of
the Madras Boat Club, Adyar.
Cricket
Opener V. Ashok and wicket-keeper Balakrishna Sharma were called for selection for
the Madras State Junior team_ Ashok is' in •

Hockey Team

Ravi

Our hero was in utter dismay
And soon the kid's manner grew curt
He seemed to be- by barbed wires hurt
• Let's go home,' he began to cry
Our moron felt he could have died
Together they went to OAT
The only pride of lIT.
Too young to ogle a colourful saree
He looked at urchins from Velacherry
, Why did they have to build a fence? '
With all this crowd, it doesn't make sense'.
, Shut up, you mutt', he almost shed a tear
If they had sense, you wouldn't be here' .
The kid shrugged his shoulders In' said 'Big
[deal'

Ravi

Stared at the torn screen, reel after reel.
The movie was a mighty big bore
This place,' said he, ' I'll explore'.
He ran towards the forest dense
And into a lousy barbed-wire fence
Went to his brother with blood on his face
, To your room', ,he said, with child-like
It
[grace.
To Kaveri they prodded their way
It seemed hundred miles away
On his way to a warm cosy bed
He stopped as if he were struck dead.
Thoroughly shaken-muttered the pest
r Come now, they say Bonn's in West'.
C

-DIKZIHWEEG

/lGyt youG-or

PE.Rfof)/CA I. 5
IJRE
/6-00f)

