November, 1968]
Letters-(continlled from p. 4. col. 2)
.like the plague. In the third place, all normal
people are sometimes serious and sometime.s
jocular. To call this behaviour inconsistent is
unfair enough, but to brand it a ' loathsome
hypocrisy' is highly offensive and uncalled for.
Mr. Venkateswaran would do well to reflect
that he does not have a monopoly in invective,
and that insulting epithets are not logical
arguments.
Why this obsession for ostentatious Higher
Thought? Why this preoccupation with
gloom, this morbid craving for platitudinous
pomposity? Why these pitiful strivings after
pseudo-intellectualism?
Since when has
laughter been so insignificant? The strain of
our schedule of work is undeniable, and lightness of spirit does much to ease the tension.
It is no doubt possible for a person to read
Kant's Critique of Pure Reason and The
Collected Poems of T. S. Eliot as his sole
relief from work, but it is hardly probable.
I am not sure what Mr. Venkateswaran
would have us be, but I ref.ent the implication that lightheartedness is synonymous wi th
cynicism and the lack of national feeling.
Indeed, I fail to see any connection \Vha tsoever between these diverse attributes. The
sudden intuitive leap bewildered me. Cynicism, is a contempt for all worldly things and
experiences and comes from a serious rathel'
than a frivolous frame of mind. As for doing
something for the country, we are understandably reluctant to make speeches about it.
Ideals and philosophies of life are too personal, too lofty to be vulgarly bandied about
in common conversation. How these feelings
are linked with the· compulsion to stagger
around in sackcloth and ashes, I really do not
understand.
.
The reassurance at the end that he is not
declaring total war on humour-graciously, as
it were, permitting its presence as a lesser
attendant to the Grace of all Graces, Seriousness-is of dubious worth. The judgment
of what constitutes an ' admirable mixture of
humour and seriousness' is arbitrary. It
varies with the persoll and with the situation.
But I firmly maintain that humour is the
saving grace.
Yours sincerely,
S. PARAMESHWARAN.

sir,

Gymnasium

It is surely magnanimous on the part of the
Institute authoriti.::s to maintain a Ifoymnasium.
for the benefit of the surrounding village
population. One hopes that there is at least
a ten year plan to provide students with gym
facilities. · Some points which may be noted;
A gym need not function as a traffic island
fQr regulating the evening rush between the
hostels, .gate, Velacheri and the · institute
buildings.
.
Motorcycl~s, various passers-:-hy, stray kids
and dogs and varieties of insects should not
be seen or heard as the case may be.
Hazards due to frequent collapsing of
apparatus, strangulation by banyan tree
tentacles etc. can certainly be avoided in an '
indoor gym where sun, rain and termites are
absent.
Indian Standards 2459 to 2463 contain some
information about apparatus. Sand is not a
substitute for mats.
An indoor gym can also incorporate activi..
ties like weight lifting and boxing, which are
at present permitted to function only in hostel
cellars, if at all.
-A would he gymnast (no more).

CAMPASTIMES

7

PERSONALITIES

is a great pal of mine. Isn't the world a
pretty small place?' However, in his view,
his interests are not reciprocated and he is
disappointed that even students at the research
level fight shy of approaching him despite his
repeated attempts to break the ice.
Dr. Murthy states vehemently that the
proper place for an academician is the classroom and that' nothing gives him more
pleasure than teaqhing, especially with receptive and respollsive students 'as in IIT. Yet,
this should not convey the impression that
students are any different here from elsewhere, and thus his basic approach to students
has been the sam<;, all through his career.
Dr. Murthy re~~l1s, with a smile, the torrid
spell of ragging he underwent on his first day
as a lecturer, and how the very same boys
gave him a heart-rending farewell a year later.
Dr. Murthy graduated from Mysore Universityand worked at the Annamalai University and at the Birla Institute of Technology
and Science, Pilani, before going over to the
United States for his M.S. course work.
While at Wisconsin, he also worked in a
couple of. Engineering Firms and on his reoO .
turn to India, he joined the Faculty of
Mechanical Engineering at Ranchi. A little
later, he worked for his Doctorate which he.
was awarded by the Mysore University.
Prof. Murthy feels that .the workshoptraining, and the ability to produce what one
designs, differentiates an engineer from a
scientist. While he is all praise for the German scheme of compUlsory workshop'. train- '
ing, he feels that it could be modified to make
it less monotonous.
.
Regarding his ;, present work here, Dr.
Murthy feels that what is currently called
I. C. Engines, should reany be treated as
1. C. Engineering, and will eventually emerge
as one of the speCialised modes of energy
conversion-just as in a fuel-cell or water
turbine, with as vast a field of application a~
any other mode of energy. He is confident
that 1. C. Engines will outlive the generations
to come, though the pundits have given it a
theoretical burial.
Besides his life as a teacher, Dr. Murthy
has other things to look back upon with
pride. He was in ..the (then Royal) Indian
Air Force as an Education officer and later in
the N.C.C. at its inception; at Annamalai
University (he held the. rank of a Major).
Dr. Murthy is a true example of perfect
harmony betweeIJ intellectual seriousness,
bubbling friendliness and warmth.
He is fond of Indian classical music (Carnatic and Hindustani) and is keen on recording
good pieces on tape.

Dr. B. S. Murthy
In a place like lIT, where both staff and students consider it a fashion to be always late for
cla.ss and be prot1:d of it, too (this, incidently,
bemg the only thmg they have in common) it
is ind~ed a rare thing to hear a lecturer, 'on
entenng the class, utter these cheerful and
apologetic words . ' Good Morning, boys, I
hope I haven't kept you waiting.' To add to
this breach of convention, the lecturer does
not go immediately to the black-board and
start writing the 26 English and 24 Greek
letters in a not~so-orderly manner. Instead
with a characteristic hustle and bustle some~
what magnified by his stature, (not m'agnified
stature) he continues from where he left off
the pr~vious class, explaining the physical cOncepts ll1volved in combustion, in an animated
manner, , ..hich would make Rolf Scharre look
pedestrian.
..
.
His elaborate explanations, repetitive if need
arises, may result in slow progress, but the
student is real sure of his' fundas ! '. Such a
person is Dr. B. S. Murthy, Prof. of I. C.
Engines and . acting Head of the . Dept. of
Mechanical Engineering.
.
Prof. Murthy belongs to that old guard
whose interest ill students is not confined to
class-rooms. Interrupting his lectures in the
middle, he would remark to a student, ' By
the way, I met your uncle the other day. He

<

-KALYANASUNDARAM,

R.K.V.

PHILIPS INDiA DONATES AN ENDOWMENT

Our Image
Sir,
How conscious can one be of one's image
abroad .? Admirable. though the sentiment
might be, there are limits to which one should
go in trying to protect it.
Way,'
Mr. Pal'ameshwaran (' By the
Campastimes October '68) seems to be haunted by the idea that .thc image of lIT might
The consequence - - a
be tarnished.
lengthy discourse on the lack of public
mindedness of an individual. . • - - seems
to have defeated its own purpose.
Yours etc.
P. RAMNATH.

Mr. V. T. R. C~andran, Regional Managef, Philips India Ltd., Madras, presented a cheque fcir
to the Director. Mr. M. G. Damodhar, Manager, PIT Department, is looking on. .
Philips India Ltd. are giving the Institute this amount for an endowment to mark the
association of this industrial organization with the work of the Institute. The endowment is
to be used annually for the award of prizes to outstanding students and for extension lectures
at the Institute by outstanding scientists .or technologists.
Rs.

10,000

