- 2 INTER HOSTEL
Football:

Jamuna hold fancied Ganga (0-0)

In a listless encounter (were all footballers exhausted after the
grulling six-8-side?) Jamuna enjoyed territorial superiority but could
not translate it into goals.

There were no planned moves and both side

simply went thro' the motions.

9

They seemed relieved at the sound of the

final whistle.
Kabaddi:

Saras gave wlo to Jamuna
Quite Un-Velaskar like ?t

Volley ball: ..§anga outspikes Saras 9-15, 15-5, 15-6
Venu was not his own self and the first game went the Saras woy.
Ganga played safe thereafter and with Badri, Sreeni, Venu and Ramshankar
coming into their own, the next two sets were easily taken.

Bhoopalan

and Anantha of Saras, also shone.

*****
In a practice match the Institute team beat the CSIR team 15-11, 15-9,
13-15, 15-6.

After winning the first two games IITM relaxed and conse-

quently lost the third.

Badri played at his very best.

For CSIR it was

a solo effort from Neelamegam, a reno wed player of yester years.

*****
A non medallists 6-A-SIDE Vollaybqll tourney will be conducted shortly.
Details will come up in a few days.
Cricket:

Narmada skittled out bv

K~veri

In one of the biggest upsets of the year, underdogs Kaveri shocked
3rd seeds Narmada and thus entered the league.

The man of the match was

Kaveri off spinner Muralidhar whose analysis read 7-1-15-7-_ For
it was a very bad day as they threw away their wickets.

Na~mqd&

Narmada 69 all

out and Kaveri 71 for 3 (Sreeni 35).
liEdminton (Shuttle)
There were four matches played this week.

Of the four matches only

the Kaveri-Narmada match went the full distance and the other three were
tame 3-0 wins.

Nandakumar (Institute Player) steered Kaveri a close 3-2

win over Narmada.
represented by

He won both his singles and the doubles.

PhadD~s

and Goel comfortably put it acrOss Saras.

were represented by Ananth and
fortable win over Sarayu.
the spirited

f~ht

Next Mandak

~eikio~

Sares

Later, Brahms coasted to a com-

The only notable feature of this match was

put up by Usha in her match with Nehru Issac.

Inci-

dentally, the girls were given a 4 point handicap in the singles matcheswhichm~ant

that they had to score only 11 points for victory while Nehru

and Co had to SCOre 15.

Tapti represented by Kaushik and Doc had the full

measure of Mandak and thus became the first team to qualify for the league.
The only notable featUre of this tie was that the Mandak lads took a game
of Kaushik and Doc in the doubs.
Ball Baddy: Godav beat Saras 13-29, 29-23, 29-19
Fancied Godav after a bad first'game came back strongly to beat Saras
in an engrossing match.

Both the centres played well-Srivathsan (Sa) and

