Vol. V, No.4

II T Madras, April 1967

25P.
The days have fled

THE INSTITUTE DA Y
By 5.30 p.m. on the 15th of March 1967.
the Open Air Theatre was dotted with a few
empty seats here and there. Exactly at 6.00
p.m. the Chief Guests, Sardar and Sardarini
Ujjal Singh arrived. The function started
and proceeded smoothly till II.30 p.m. After
the invocation, Prof. Varghese welcomed the
gathering. It was his last speech as the
President of the Gymkhana. Thomas Victor
read the report on the Gymkhana activities of
the year. He made it sound a very big year.
Then Prof. Sampath came to the dias. He
recalled the visits of prominent personalities
to the Institute and informed us about the close
association of Sardar Ujjal Singh with technical
education in India. Then came Dr. Klein and
Asst ..Registrar Rajagopalan who spoke of the
odd little things in the I.I.T. that one does
not usually notice. Their
speeches were
highly technical and they poked fun at everything but themselves. His Excellency, Sardar
Ujjal Singh, in his address, appreciated the
work done by the Institute and wished us
continued success. Sardarini Ujjal Singh
distributed the year's prizes for general
proficiency in the various years and branches.
The prize winners were given a big hand as
they went up to receive their prizes. The
Institute magazine was released. A Pianoaccordion was presented by the German
Consul to the Gymkhana.
The entertainment programme that followed
opened with a fishermen's dance by the
Vanavani School Kids. Though it kept the
audience guessi ng as to when it would end, it
was very nice and well appreciated. Then
came the play C Chandalika', put up by the
children in the Campus, produced and directed
by Mrs. Director and the Director. Or as the
M. C. put it, directed by the Director, who
was directed by Mrs. Director. Prof. Lutz
who had made a very bold attempt at learning
Carnatic music, held the audience along with
his tutor Mr. Krishnamurthy. The C Rubaiyat
of Omar Khayyam' did not do justice to
Firadusi, though the setting was fabulous.
The Misses Besanz who took part were given a
special prize. Interspersed in the programme
were attempts at music by a score of 1.1.
Tians with the Tornadoes and the Beat X in
the lead. We had a lot of time to have our
dinner and come back. Prof. Chandrasekhara$wamy along with Mr. Kumar put up a skit
about drilling a hole through the earth as an
efficient system of communication and
enlightened us on some of the latest advances
in the field of Geometry, about the chord of a
drcle being smaller than its diameter. Mr.
Vijayaraghavan on his Hawaiian Guitar was
very impressive. Mani's play (the latest in
his detective series) was good. Thomas
Victor has the potentialities of an efficient
butler. Rammohan's acting was very good
but the audience was even better. Shanker
the master of ceremonies was his usual self
and provided a few laughs. The day came to
an end with the vibrant notes of the piano.

The days have fled
Spring is gon~
With it his youth.
So much the worse said he
So much the better.
Spring is gone
And Winter's dawn
With his legs and eyes.
So much the worse said he
So much the better.
. Love is gone
No fun left nor frolic
And he but a relic.
So much the worse said he
So much the better.
The weary .way drags on
With death just around
Each turn's a danger.
So much the worse said he
So much the better.
The days have fled
All is gone
But God's kindly grace.
So much the worse said he
So much the better.
-Paul Claudel
Translated from French by
P. S. Srinivasan
Dept. of Applied Mechanica.

An excellent pl'l.'forrnance : " Chandalika "-on
Institute day.

We are deeply grieved to announce
the demise of K.· CHELLAPPA, a
student of 4th year Aeronautics. On
th~ morning of 7th April '67 he was
run over by a train while crossing
the lines.
May his soul test in Peace.

Dr. Reichell presenting the Piano-accordion to the Director

