2

CAMPASTIMES

[April. 1967

QUIP STRIPS
FocuS on eat
Who perspires thro' the seat of his pants?Cut. Who talks like a backfiring bus ?-Cut.
Who's got the breath that launched a thousand
mouthwashes ?-Cut. Who smokes like his
mouth was on nre ?-Cut. Who's so active
that he has a muscle bound seat ?-Cut . . •
(The 'Cut' here does not represent the
censors answer but refers to a mis-shapen mass
of misguided metabolism who rejoices in the
monicker of Vinay Kumar Sehgal). Amend
to that.
• Vinay Kumar Sehgal, who has always been
known as Cut for reasons best known to
himself and his close associates---is a
shining example of a body built for stability
rather than for speed. Cut is a powerful
swimmer especial1y in water, a~d his breast
stroke is admired by all both In and out of
water. As he has more than his share of
facial adornment, he reaps an unusually rich
harvest. In fact he is always on the lookout
for one less endowed than he, whom he can
share it with. His legs though short are long
enough to make it to the ground. He always
has to buy two tickets; one for his paunch
and one for himself.
In his first two years here he was subject
to recurrent fits especially when someone
touched his fan or sat on his table j and this
has caused much bloodshed to all concerned.
For instance Yogi once accidentally came into
contact with his fan and Cut, always a gentleman tried to congratulate him with the result
thattYogi's wrist broke. Once Cut and Sirpal
were engaged in unarmed combat. Cut
stopped a mighty clout and that was the last
straw. Muttering foul oaths he charged-,and ended up on the water cooler, hurlmg
abuses at his opponent. It may be lnteresting to relate another incident popularly known
as the' Bog Light '. It aU started when Jack
was laying his knotted towel on Cut's back
at periodic intervals. Suddenly Cut ran
amuck and accelerating rapidly he shot down
the corridor in hot pursuit of. Jack. Jack
being fleeter of foot made a nlnety degree
turn at the entrance to the bathr~om. Bellowing .like an amorous bull Cut ~lt a pud~le
of water. got airborne and rap~dly. losmg
height, crash-landed. naked ;:ls. a Jayblrd, o?the floor in that order respectively. At thIS
he started gurgling like an emptyin~ sink and
delivered a lengthy harangue castmg grave
aspersions on the parentage of the spectators
in general and Jack in particular.

This cartoon
was given to us
by one of a
group of French
world tourists
who visited our
Institute.

Cut's vocal chords have never been known
to operate at less than 100 decibels-as
various faculty members will testify. He gets
most of his exercise in the mornings UPt
down, up, down, up, down and panting
heavily he tries the other eye lid. Apart
from this he gets most of his exercise at meal
times when he devours food in large quantities-' Eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow
another chicken dies.'
Cut is a deeply religious sort, being a
devout gambler. He i.s no doubt .one of t~e
most sporting guys In the Instltute and IS
always ready for some fun which, remarkably
enough, generally tUr11:s out tt;> be at his ?wn
expense. He is musical mmded. aI,ld SIngs
songs from • The Sound. of MuSIC
the
tune of • My Fair Lady both of whIch he
has seen at least a dozen times. Of late he
has mellowed greatly most probably due to
the restraining influence of his lady love and
this has made a new man out of Cut., ....
giving a sum total of three men.

:0

V. GOPAL

If dear reader, you're looking for Gopal,
T~ke a tip, he won't be i? a lecture hail.
You'll find him if at Knshna you call,
Playing cricket \vith a tennis bali.
Gopal the Entertainment Sec. has been,
A chap who's always b~hi~d the scene,
A quiet worker, enthUSIastlc and keen,

Unlike some guys ..."\;ho in the limelight are seen.
When Gopal into the limelight does walk,
There are few left to hear him talk,
A vote of thanks has rarely-if at all
Been delivered in a crowded hall.
His disordered room is the sole exception~
To the flair he displays for organisation,
Inhabiting it is a te'~ming population
Of reptiles, insects and exotic vegetation.
If entertainment you feel, is below par,
Don't just rant, do something yar,
And remember, when next time you curse,
That, but for some guys, things could be worse.

R. NEELAMEGHAM
Neelamegham, sir. is a dogged lad,
So dogged at times, some say he's mad.
So determined is he that he has been found
To keep running the thousands till there was
no one around.
In Narmada, a notice board wasn't needed,
All news, by Chief Blue Cloud was speeded,
The official town crier he was dubbed,
Till a big bird this little bird clubbed.
But Neelamegham now sedate has grown,
His academic standing to new heights has flown.
By virtue of which he has been
The Editor of his Society's Magazine.
His stay here is coming to an end,
Soon he'll be out on his own to fend,
And when from here Blue Cloud drifts away,
Our best wishes we hope will smooth his way.

\

\
'-

\

\
The Sports day

