CAMPAST1MES

April, 19671

3

The Moving Finger
writes . .. ·

CARICATURE

S
I

The Carnival
Krishna hostel organized another carnival
this year: Posters were found all over the
campus, posters even in Deutsch:
" Wenn sie wollen indische Speise,
Machen sic zu Krishna eine Reise 1"

D
H

There were eats, and intetesting competi-

ttons were available for the enterprising.
Mani won the Coca Cola competition by

U

polishing off eight cokes, in the stipulated
time. What he did after the stipulated time,
he desires, to keep a secret. The Krishnites,
we hear, made a profit of around five hundred
rupees. This helped them spend more on
their Hostel Day, and also in bringing out a
brochure-a brand new idea.
Chromophobia
The hostel walls turned crimson with
colour powder and with shame. Floors
exhibited all the colours of the ra.inbow.
Some hostels are blessed with a pond, and
ducks. Ponds turned out to be curses in,
disguise. We had to fall in line to be
chucked into the pond and to wallow in the
mud like pigs. The central school was invaded,and the children joined their seniors, shouting'
for a holiday. On' HoU' day, every year, the
limits of decorum go unobserved in I.I.T.
Suddenly the Summer
The summer has arrived and with it the
days of judgement, the days of the triumph
of the weak over the strong. Ii silver lining
is however seen among the clouds. For the
, A' grade is now 6s~minjmum out of 100.
More students are putting in their best as the
possibility of getting an A-aggregate is now
less remote. One can easily see that this
(Colltd. from Col. 3)
state of affairs is not likely to prevail for long.
N.:xt year as many B's will flow in as did this
been proposed, but is yet to be carried out.
year. For around here the paper is given an
Sidhu sure is a clever guy,
Some of the fifth yearers will go abroad.
overall grade. The idea of giving marks for
Who, the lecturers in knots can tie,
Some will return in the disguise of STA's
each step does not seem to have occured to
His knotty questions are rarely doubts,
or lecturers. Drastic changes will be seen
most of t~e pedagogues in our institute.
More often, invitations to sparring bouts.
in them. They will begin to • act tough'
April Fool Banaya .•••
with the same friends with whom they played
Even on subjects which to him are Greek.
Subramaniam, alias Mani is gifted were
Sidhu can with authority speak;
cards. went to the movies and • gassed' late
His tall yarns, I'm willing to bet,
most of us are not-he is gifted with a sense
into the nights. Many others will find jobs
Are either in PatiaIa or Germany set.
of humour. On the night of April the first,
all over our country and strive to be a credit
His uncles and brothers arc quite a
Mani vanished into thin air. What made this
to their - Institute. It will be a sorrowful
Parting this year, more sorrowful than
incident sadder was that Mani, (who is in
crowd.
Whose sterling qualities he proclaims
ever before, since, by reason of the removal
charge of our Film Club), had informed one
aloud,
of the Same year-Same hostel system,
and all through notices, that a ~ Flick' would
They seem to have been the world
inter-year relations have considerably im~
be shown on the said night. Teacher and
around,
proved.. Tears will be shed, grappling hoops
Taught. after a long and uneventful stay at
And can from Patial2 to Timbuctoo be
the OAT, saw light, and took the homeward
of steel sawn apart, hearts wrung. and all
path with bowed hellds. When Mani re~
found.
that Jazz. when the fifth and third leave. Our
turned, late in the night, he was thtOwn into
Institute, in spite of it's periodicals, submisFew guys can with Sidhu compare,
the Tapti Hostel pond by three well-built
In his worK, no efforts does he spare,
- sions, and so on, is not a bad place to live in.
young men (with no sense of humour) specially
Life here has been a grand conquest,
commissioned for the purpose. But Mani
In coming years, we wish him all the
still says it was worth it.
best.
The Population Explosion
R. K. PRAKASH.
If the explosion had been among the Homo
Sapiens in our campus, it would have jus~
meant additional work for the doctor. It is
The Press and Registration or Books Act 186'1
more serious when in the place of one deer, one
Tile [ollowing informatloll is publis/ted as required by Rule g of the
sees ten. For years we have lived in peaceful
Regis/ratioll of Newspapers (Central) Rules 1956.
co-existence with our swift footed friends.
Trouble was to start, and the first signs of
FORMN
it where noticed when the speedster Mac,
1. Place 0/ Publicatioll.-Institute Gymkhana, I.I.T. Madras-36.
with the Lieutenant on his pillion. found
himself airborne, after an unexpected meeting
2. Periodicity of its publicatI01l.-S-6 issues a year.
with a sweet young doe. The day will soon
3. Printer's Name.-V. M. Philip.
come when one will be unable to drive from
Nationality-indian.
the hostels to the gate, without coming into
Address-C/o The Diocesan Press, 10, Church Road, Vepery. Madras-7.
violent contact with these ever~breeding
4. Publisher'S Name.-Prof. P. C. Varghese.
neighbours. One feels that the day will also
Nationality-Indian.
come when the deer will take over the
Address.-President lnst. Gymkana, I.LT. Madras.
academic section-many lie in wait for the
day. For drums are beaten, wierd noises are
S. Editor'S Name.-M. G. Subhramanyam.
made throughout the night. but the deer
Nationality-Indian.
continue to find lIT, a more interesting place
Address.-Krishna Hostel, lIT. Madras.
than the neighbouring deer sanctuary.
6. Names and addresses 0/. individuals w/zo own IIze
So long," fare'Well, auf weidersehen,newspaper aud partners or shareholders
goodbye,IIolding more tllall olle per celli of t ',e tOlal capital.-Nil.
The year is drawing to a close. The final
r. P. C. Varghese hereh:; declare tTlot Ilze particlliars givell above are true to tlte best
year students are having their first attacks of
of my knowledge and belit/.
nostalgia. A final~prefinal get-together has

o
F

P

A
T
I
A
L

A

SIDHU

And having writ
moves on ....

Daltd, 61'. April, 1967.

(Sd.) P. C. VARGHESE,
Signature of Pub/is',cr.

(Contd. itt Col. 2)

