r April

CAMPASTIMES

4

AROUND THE
HOSTELS

EDJTORIAL
Long standing shadows steal across the
SCene. It is the twilight of our stay at IIT.
The shadows are nostalgic memories-real
and ever-growing. The eagerly awaited respite
from the sun's g;lare has culminated not in a
cool evening but into a gloomy dusk. Minds
keep returning to the past, stirring up past
memories-memories dotted with happy
moments. Pleasant memories of our stay
here seem to efface all others filling us with a
vague sadness at the thought of our exit from
the lIT scene.
In typical old timer style we can speak of
the old days-the hardships, the trials and the'
happy experiences. Few buildings graced the
landscape. There were but three hostels-to
be more exact two and a half, ours being only
half complete-and the Civil Engineering
Block. There were no roads, only the winding
paths-beaten tracks-leading to the classes.
There was no shopping center. There was
only an apology for a road from the main gate.
Many of us remember the long trudge from
the gate after a movie, on a dark mQon-\ess
night, all the time hoping and praying that a
snake should not sneak out of a nearby b!lsh.
We also remember the classes-a hundred
or more crowded into one class-room, eyes
peering at the distant blackboard, ears strained,
only to give up eventually, allowing the
monotonous voice of the lecturer. .droning
through the sultry air. to lull one to sleep.
And then there was the NeC. It was no
trifling business-we had to rush back to
hostel for tea, down some boiling muck, rush
up and dress in a jiffy, run to the Kotc and
collect . rifles, and march to the parade
. ground-all in half an hour.
We have been long-suffering guinea pigs
as far as the periodical system goes. The
graduating class of '67 is probably the only
one which can claim to have gone through
every examination system~every stage from
the time periodicals were held at any time
and had du~ious weightages to the present
orderly conduct of periodicals with weightages
well-known beforehand.
It was during our stay here that the film
club and our campus paper took shape. The
OAT. the stadium and the various play-fields
were built before our own eyes. It would
be no exaggeration to state that the Institute,
has grown most during our stay.
Initially, persons when told that we were
from IIT, wanted to know whether it U'3S a
polytechnic institute. It had not assumed the
grand proportions of an institution of national
importance. Our seniors when they left the
Institute went aWay gloomily nodding their
heads at the thought that with their exit the
cultural epoch they had started would die a
natural death. Needless to say their fears
were HI-founded and the class of '67 has
acquitted itself c[t!ditably in all nelds.
Great things are in the offing in the Institute (the long overdue swimming pool, the
35 mm. projector and the boating club) and
the thought that we will not be here to see
them makes us a trifle sad. lIT has been a
great place to stay in with great guys to move
around with. It wouldn't be mere slushy
sentiment to say that it is a sad parting for
all of us.
The twilight has deepened into a dark
night.

, So shall it be written and So shall it be
done '. said the Lord, but our authorities have
gone one step further-they do not have to
write, they just have to say what is to be
done, and it is done. I am obviously referring
to the combination of Hostels in the celebration of Hostel days.
Much against the will of most of us it was
decided that this year two hostels get together
and celebrate a combined Hostels' Day. Of
Dr. Bannerjee's claim, of such an eventuality
resulting from a special bond of friendship
between two particular hostels, I hardly need
say a word. The inmates of Godavari hostel
fel! that the same bond of friendship that
umted Tapti and Narmada links them with all
the other hostels-' So we combine with all or
with none'.
Mr. Nithyanandam of Gears India Ltd. was
the Chief Guest when Tapti and Narmada got
together. Prof. Sampath, our Deputy Director
presided over the functiOll. After the routine
ceremonies were over we moved to the most
interesting part of the whole show- the
dinner.
One notable feature of this year's Hostels'
days celebration was that the guests were not
chosen exclusively from the ranks of Professors
and Asst. Profs. Staff members on the lower
rung of the ladder were given a chance of
taking part in our merry-makings.
Talking of the guests I am reminded of a
little saying I learnt at school. • where there
is honey the bees will be.' But surely the cream
of the Indian intelligentia could well afford to
conduct themselves with better dignity and
decorum than little bees. I am ob"iously
referring to the unhealthy practice that is fast
gaining ground-of self-styled guests making
their presence felt at dinners.
The rest of the hostels' day celebrations
that day is a sad tale of' one big mess'thoroughly disorganised and mismanaged.
Above all it was a scene of chaos and
confusion.
The Chief Guest on entering Narmada must
have been surprised to see people 'already at
it'. Soon the tables were full with quite a
few left stranded without a seat. People got
panicky in the fear that they would have to go
hungry. They charged into the mess to help
themselves with what they could find. The
scramble for ice creams was unmanageable.
The entertainment that evening was chiefly
a one-man show-Gopal Ramac\landran
d~minating the stage. The way Mr. Henkel
taIled the cat is a lesson to all imaginative
brains.
. Having learnt the lesson from the guineapIgs as to what makes the Hostels' day a
success, the Ganga-Saraswathi combination
started on an excellent note.
Mr. England their Chief Guest stressed on
the importance of unity. He asked of us to
set aside thoughts of individual glory in the
pursuit of common good. The preliminaries
being finished with, we got on to bras:; tacks.
The dinner was a wen-organised affair. The
tables were laid out spick and span. Each
chair hore the name of thc one who would
occupy it-and this, (Thank God) got rid of
the unbecoming practice that goes by the name
of 'gate crashing'. Barring a few minor
slips that are normally unavoidable they have
done everything in their power to establish fOf
ever the idea of combined Hostels' day.
The entertainment programme was aimost
fully monopolised by Shankar whose humorous
interludes were quite often more interesting
than what preceded or followed. He has,
I am sure, made a name for himself as a
master of ceremonies.
The most commendable of all the Hostel
days was the Godavari Hostel day who for
reasons mentioned earlier refused to combine
with any of the hostels. Theirs was a simple
affair and a homely one too. Prof Sam path
was their Chief Guest. They did not have the
usual gala dinner. They bad just a .tea party.
A wholesome entertainement was provided
by the Godavari Hostel group~the Spectacles
[Beat-X- (Alfy+Ebbie)+Codeiro] stealing
the show.

1967

The same mysterious air ·that surrounds
many other things that happen in Jamuna
hostel kept us from the proceedings of the
Jamuna-Alakananda Hostels' day.
The little kid~' have been so petted and
pampered that thay have hardly any acquaintances among the seniors. Little is known of
what went on. Mr. G. D. Naidu was, I be
Heve, their Chief Guest. He made a
vigorous attack on the Policies of the government.
A little bird tells me that combined Hosteldays have met their doom. the I marriage
dinner' affair at the Sangam, the fenced-off
affair at Jamuna-Alakananda and the 'big
mess' at Tapti-Narmada have exposed the
dangers of a joint Hostel day.
TEERS
w

Letters to the Editor
Sir.
What is the height of frustration? One
of the printable ·answers to this query is,
'to stand ~efore. the workshop water cooler,
hot and thirsty after a hard day's work'.
Why? Because there's nary a tumbler in
sight and you are bound to have oily and
dirty hands.
One of the rituals to be gone through in
the machine shop is the cleaning of the lathe
bed. The efficiency of this process could
be greatly improved and a lot of time saved
if broader brushes were used. The brush
now provided is about half a centimetre
aCross and seems' to be mOre suited for
brushing flies off a sleeping Venus.
Yours,
A SENIOR PUMBER.
P .S. May I remind the workshop that two
years have -elapsed since the Madras
Inter !IT Meet. As such the Meet
poster urgilig the reader to make the
most of playing the host can safely be
taken down from the workshop notice
board.

Dear Sir,
Permit me to p'oint out the discordant note
that seems to have been struck so effortlessly
in the February issue of Campastimes. I refer
to the caricature of Charanjit Singh.
While one does not wish to be unduly
harsh on the author, the wIloIe thing
in
grossly questionable taste. Specially the
likening of Mr. Singh to Fagin and a' few
other things is unmitigatedly malevolent' and
invidious.
.
The author has made a pathetic mistake
in failing to distinguish between humour and
ribaldry and the end product is nothing·
short of calculated lampoon.
The sole consolation to be drawn from the
whole article is that the author has lived
down to his sobriquet..
At the present rate, Campastimes is heading
for the point of no return.
Yours truly,

is

T. A.

SAKTHI KUMAR.

Ravi the Reckless.
It was one of those nre occasions when
somebody offers to take you to a movie, for
no reason whatsoever. It was Ravi. I grabbed
the opportunity and Went out along with him.
On our way I was trying to find one reason
at least why he should have picked on me.
I could not ngute it out. I perceived that
Ravi was in great spirits.
My grandmother has taught me well to
predict that a buoyant man picks trouble on
his way. It was a great surprise to me when
we reached the theatre and even got seated.
without Ravi getting into trouble. I wondered
if my Granny wa,s wrong.
Anvone acquainted with Ravi will know a
hundred stories" of Ravi and his exploits of
which not one is confirmed. Ravi claims even

(Contd. 01' page 5. Col. I)

