6

[April, 1967

Sportfolio

ODYSSEY
SundaY-4th Dec. 1966.
05-30 hrs.

The Annual Institute Sports day was held
on lIth March '67. Mr. S. Sriraman, Secretary, Cricket Control Board of India was the
Chief Guest. Some very interesting items
like the staff couples' needle and thread race,
the staff over 35 years race, the musical
Chairs, the obstacle race etc, were witnessed.
The huge crowd that was present for the
occasion consistently gave the winners a big
hand. The prizes were distributed by Mr.
'Sriraman after the normal routine of addresses.
The March Past trophy for the best contingent went' to Godavari Hostel. The InterHostel Athletics Championship was won by
Saraswathi. Joshi Paul of the same hostel
won the coveted Individual championship.
The Schroeter cup for the general championship was shared by Tapti and Ganga. By
winning the toss, Ganga earned the right to
have custody of the cup for the first six
months. A solemn national anthem, and the
curtain Was brought down on the VIII Annual
·sports day of the Institute.
A national topic of today is who is going
to be the next President. It is a strong local
·one, too, but with a small difference. The
present President of the Institute Gymkhana,
Prof. P. e. Verghese will be soon laying down
his office. Speculations are very much on.
The names taking special rounds are those of
Prof. R. K. Gupta and Prof. E. G. Ramachandran. Who knows there might be a pleasant surprise in store for everybody.
Reflecting on the past, it will be in the best
interests of the extra-curricular activities
(especially sports) of the students that the
Gymkahna elections be finished by end of
July itself and the committees start function-

ing right from first week of August. With the
Inter-Collegiate commitments, the Inter~IIT
meet preparation and not forgetting the
academic and NCe demands, the sports
committee tends to feel a sad lack of time.
Many other tournaments for which trophies
have been installed could not be held this
year for various reasons. The committee
could as soon as possible draw up an annual
schedule including all these, besides the Inter
Hostel Tournaments (something to be really
careful about) of course, giviug sufficient time
for IIT meet preparations. Talkin!?; about
the meet, as a prominent sports chap sugges~
ted the committee could appoint a small subcommittee to see that really adequate arrangements are made for a good participation in the
meet. The next meet will be held in Delhi,
according to most reliable sources.
In conclusion may I express the hope that
the swimming, the boating and the shuttle
badminton needs of the very many IITians
arc met as soon as possible in the form of the
pool, the lake and boats and the Hall. May
the outdoor club which according to R. Jai~
kumar is one of the best in the country today
and which is held in quite some esteem by many
mountaineering associations of the country,
flourish and attain greater heights in the year
to come. May I also express the wish that
more and more people take interest in the
boxing and skating clubs and make them into
full-fledged bodies of student activity.
And finally as a sweet young thing says
everything good should come to an end, I take
leave of you now.
ABDUL HAMEED.

Ravi, Penny and I leave the
Campus by the Vellachery
gate-destination unknown.
05-31 hrs. The watchman at the gate
stares doubtfully at the ruck~
sack on Penny's shoulders. We
gulp.
05-31'15 hrs. He says, .. Outpass, Sahab?"
But we are already past him.
06-00 hrs. We entrain at Guindy. The
train heads towards Tambaram.
06-17 hrs. Ravi cracks a P.J.
06-17'5 hrs. We laugh.
06-20 hrs. Tambaram. From here we
head towards Vandalur across
coimtry.
07- 0 0 hrs. Green fields on both sides.
"Shall I lighten your load,
Penny?" says Ravi, and Penny
hands over the rucksack to him.
Ravi takes it, removes from it
a few bananas and a sand~
wich, swallows them and hands
the rucksack back.
07-30 hrs. We are still walking-in search
of adventure. The rucksack
is a few pounds lighter and
Ravi an equal number of
pounds heavier.
08~00 hrs. Silence. We are in search of
a decent spot to sit and have
OLt'f breakfast-Penny and me,
th~t is !
08-15 hra. We head towards a hill that is
inviting.
08-30 hrs. Oh no I A huge sheet of water
blocks the way. I decide to
wide through like they do in
the movies. Penny detours via
the main road and Ravi detours
:ria the orange grove nearby.
09-00 hrs. Ravi and I meet at the foot-hill.
It is a thick jungle. Penny is
lost.
09-0I hrs. It is very hot and \Vet and we
sweat. But there is no background music.
09-02 hrs. Really thick jungle. Ravi
climbs a tree to see if he can
spot Penny (with rucksack on
his back) approaching anywhere. No.
09-03 hrs. The dense jungle is frightening. I climb a tree now. I
can hear Penny hollering for
us and We holler back.
09-04 hrs. At last Penny is with us ; thank
Gpd ! we realise that we have
b<len lost only for four minutes.
Anyway, we celebrated it with
breakfast, eaten in a clearing.
II-04 hrs. breakfast over. (how sad !)
II-30 hrs. We walk along a lake embankment to a cliff nearby.
II-45 hrs. We start rock climbing-I first,
followed by Penny-and Ravi
last.
X2-00 hrs. e Puff'-puff-pant I But I'll
follow a rucksack of lunch
anywhere," swears Ravi.
12-30 hrs. A magnificent view from up
here! We decide that we have
appetite for natural beauty.
Green everywhere. Presently
R~vi reminds us that even
hunger is a natural beauty.
12-45 hrs. Eat ... ea t .... chomp .... gulp ....
chomp .. gulp .. gulp .. eat .. eat.
(belch I) .. chomp .. chomp ....
13-30 hrs. Y~wn ! zzz .... zzzzz ....
are back in Godavari and/
14-00 hrs.
ot Ganga for lunch.
KAKH.

We

A common occurrence-Joshi Paul breasts the tape

