April

19~7]

7

CAMPASTIMES
to be. The next time the Zulu decides to
jump about he need not bother himself with
unstable upper garments that came threatenN
ingly close to falling off because on the
authority of Encyclopaedia Britannica I can
guarap.tee that the Zulu ladies went topless
quite a few hundred years back and till today
they have not found sufficient grounds to
change that state of things.

of T1ye*14ye]iQ
What a woman wears, or closer to truth,
what she does not wear, has always been an
"rea of intense human interest. Save the priveleged like, Dior or Cardin, men may not,
with impunity, satisfy their curiosity for the
inside story of female fashion. The forces,
the intentions, the pretentions and the strategy
that go to make a woman's clothing, or lack
of it, are classified information as far as men
are concerned. Some otherwise competent men
have tried unsuccessfully to confer a logic, if
there is a logic, on the vagaries of woman and
her fashion. One of them writing in Tlte
Reader's Digest, accounts for the ever shifting
necklines, waistlines, hemlines etc., by his
hypothesis of migrating erogenic zones. At
least one other unpublished theory says that
these said necklines, waistlines etc., move in
such a direction as to meet each other and
where possible eliminate each other. This
much can be said, that this is a matter of great
sensitivity and best left alone by men, who are
not qualified. Unaware of the hazards, or if
aware, displaying spunk beyond the call of duty,
the Literary Committee dared to ask of a city
college for women to send a team of competent
and informed speakers to conduct before a
male, preClominantly human congregation, an
exposition of the said ticklish topic. Shocked,
the ladies not only asked the fresh young cads
from I.I.T. to mind their own business but
also refused to take part in the other com~
petitions amidst such an environment of moral
turpitude. Everyone has a right to prejudices
but for these prejudices not to change with the
temper of the times, for these prejudices to
become dogged convictions is fatal to the
thinking man or for that matter to the rare
thinking woman. Can the organizers be
blamed for not wanting to have a group discussion on some hackneyed topic, already
thrashed out in a hundred debates by a thousand speakers, when more burning issues lay
uncontemplated? They hoped to strike the
first blow for a new frankness and maturity in
the thought and speech of Madras Campuses
but they seem to have struck rock.

*

*

The Return of Sheba, cried the chastej an
X-cert performance observed the movie
maniacs. Wild and wonderful, the audience
at large seemed to cry; at least judging from
the response the dance evinced. The Zulu
dancer had hit the headlines. Sheba, contrary
to stories otherwise said, was a second generation Zulu herself but it is extremely unlikely
that even in her deadliest moments the pagan
enchantress was as pagan as this one. A wooden
puppet dancing to one of these space-age
Tamil movie beat numbers would be considered vulgar by many. Replace the lifeless
puppet by a half naked, weed clad B. Tech.
jumping about the stage and you could shock
Frank Harris. However, a good part of the
audience in the southern stands was visibly
excited, excited enough to stampede to get a
closer look-at what? Poor souls. Since the
mass of humanity had gathered in the fabled
bowl, not for a session of cultural indoctrinaN
tion but with the sole, and I believe, unabashed
intention of being entertained and since this
pagan or Sheba or whatever you choose to call
him, entertained many as not all other perforM
mers .could, there is no justification in conN
demnlng the dance or whatever it was meant

The ostrich is a fascinating bird. It has
been known to run at speeds exceeding
4S m.p.h. It is claimed to have eaten burning
coal. Its supple legs have enough strength
to carry a massive human at considerable
speed. However, it suffers frorn a touchingly
human weakness. When it is being chased by
a hunter and is losing the race, it stops sudN
denly at a sand bank and buries its head in the
sand. There in the security of darkness its
pea· sized brain churns out an almost human
philosophy:
I

What I cannot see,
Cannot be '.

That the students of a certain hostel should
want to stop subscribing to Campastimes
because it did not pour praise and shower
appreciation on their prize-winning performance in the inter-hostel entertainment competition is quite ostrich-like, besides being
childish. Whether they subscribe or not, what
has been written has been written, published
and read and what will be written will be
written, published and read: If they wish
to close their eyes and convince themselves that nothing has been written about
them, they can go right ahead and play the
ostrich. We have the spotted deer, the katans
and noW these. Campastimer is their affair as
much as it is of the columnist, who they claim

has libelled them. If they do not agree with
what has been written they are free to sing
what they think is the truth and I am sure
Campastim8S will find space for their song of
truth and any other numbers.
Whether they are going to subscribe for their
copies of Catnpastimes or not, it is a bet that
they are going to read the paper somewhere or
the other, and that is not being ostrich-like
but being very smart.

V.R.

The Cou pan System
'Mess bills', they complained, were awfuUy
high,
• The Coupon System'-they cried, • let's
give it a try , ,
Coupons for lunch and dinner, for breakfast,
and tea,
For Appalams'and sauce and even chutney.
As one entersk one sees plates in a stack,
And tables arranged so's to form a track,
A track you follow at every repast,
Service, sir, is noW a thing of the past.
You pick up a plate, a spoon and curds.
Then follow the queue moving rasam-wards,
At the end of the line, reck'ning beginsCoupons torn off and dropped into tins.
Coupons have come in, thrown service out,
As one grows thinner and the servers grow
stout,
To new heights now, many mess bills have
flown,
The upward trend into a habit has grown.
The Coupon system is a struggle in vain,
Mess bills are stilI a source of migraine,
Let's accept facts, it needs little gumption
To realize that a mess bill is an unbounded
function.

LUMIERE

INDIA PISTONS EMPLOY

THE BEST
EXPERTISE
FOR

QUALITY.
PRODUCTS

A Second Stage expans70n shortly going
into operation to raise production still
further. incorporates significant improvements - the result of experience ensuring IP leadership in the Pis/on industry.

IndI .. Platona let up their facklry in 1949 to produco qu",my
piatou6, ring. o,nd lIueu. 'With theeltpertiBe and technlca.l knowhow of A8Sotia.te(! Enc1neerlng I1td., U. K.
In 1952. when the Butomobile industry WaJI j'u.~ coming into
being, the vel'), llrat platoll turned out at tho IP factory, waB
Ii. lIreclBion product clle~ked and certified tor Ngld adherenoe to
the speolflca.tione of the parent compa.ny.
From this sure begillning, Indio' PtBtolU. mai'uta.iuiuK high
competency. ha.ve become the acknowlEldged leaden in the fie!d.
Automobile ln8..QuC"cturera here Bud abl'oa.d, a.nd 4ea.lcra'and
the trade, relYing on Il'" 17 yean experience ba.cked by the
50 YII..r8· of our a58ocia.tes. specify India. PiBtons' quali~y
produch, Todo.y, more ~h .. n seventy·live per cent of the country·,
tot",! requirement in pistous, pIu" ringe =<llinorB. Sa being me~
by IP ,&nd exports .. re Boaring ... convjnoi.u1S prOOf oC tile beat.
expertI«e.

INDIA PISTONS J.,IMITED
SEMBIAM

MADRA$-11

