.s.

l April

CAMPASTIMES

'967

Fifth Annual Literary and Cultural Week
With the prize distribution by Prof.
'Sampath On the lIth Feb., the fifth annual
literary and cultural week came to a close.
And with it came to an end, a week of hectic
activity and excitement, a week much looked
forward to.
The last time we took part was last year
:and we cam~ right on top in almost every
.competition. As the Director pointed out
in his welcome address the same evening, it's
no fun allowing the trophies gather dust on
.our own shelves. So we did not take part
.at aU this year-except for individual prizes.
Some feel that itself was too much.
Perhaps the busiest person in the literary
-portion of the week was Kamdar, officious
.as ever. Thanks to a demonstration of foreI!ight by the literary committee, colleges got
their invitations well in time and the res·
ponse for some of the events was overwhelm·
ing.
The motion for the debate on the opening
-day was • The Female of the species is mOre
deadly than the male'. A team from Patna
Some 13
,gave it an all-India character.
-colleges took part and the result was a spicy
treat for everyone. Shankar, in top form,
was the hero of the evening. Uma Rama-cHandran of Ethiraj had to be satisfied with
second place. The audience did not forget
-its chivalry even when the judges put the
motion to vote. We are IITians, you know.
The German Recitation Competition was won
this year, by the Max Mueller Bhavan. I
"Suppose tnat it is to be expected. Kamdar
-came a close second to Sudha Varadarajan of
the MMB.
There were barely six teams for the Group
Discussion on the third day, but, 1 guess,
it is quality and not quantity that counts.
Otto of the Engg. College pulled off a
brilliant one man show. But the star team of'
the evening was our own which carried away
the audience with rather localised cracks.
There was some new blood in the team but
since we were not competing, I don't suppose
it mattered. The Law College team proved to be the pick of the crowd, an improvement over the SIET which came second.
We made good meal of the Quiz event
giving the others hardly a chance. Alex
grabbed 8g points and the Encyclopaedic
Parameswaran 6. The team trophy went to
the Christian College for the first six months
and A.C. College for the next.
It is difficult to gauge the 'fourful hudths '
around without a trip to the Science Fair·
Guys like U mesh Achia, would make even
Pfleiderer back 'orne in Germany beam with
delight. Umesh has progressed from last
year's reciprocating steam engine to a steam

turbine which won him top honours this
time. Dutta's complicated setup of glijsS
tubing and what have you was impressive,
too. An innovation was the Phsychology section at which there was always a crowd.
Credit must needs go to Mr. T. N. Govinda~
rajan. of the Psycho Dept. The Hall was
replete with photographs and paintings on
every conceivable subject. Jai's rocket was
there as usual, poised for a takeoff.
Venkatesh Mannar demonstrated to us what
curious contraptions can be fabricated from
bits of a meccano set. It was a commendable
effort. anyway.
One cannot he1p wondering whether it
would not have been better to hold the
competitions where the audience would have
more freedom of movement. Friends however teU me that the Kattans, tribal gentle·
men residing in the campus, whose virtues
were extolled in a previous issue, would then
have come into their own, started their own
side show.
Gopal, the Secretary, ushered in the Entertainment competition on Friday evening.
Jain College got in first, though not as we
found later, top te11ing. The SIET. coming
on next, began with a group dance. Except
for the fact that the dances were rather out
of step and some of the lamps they carried

R. Shanker-winner of the.AlI India Debate

At the Seience Fair:-Helium·neon laser designed by U. Dutla

were extinguished, it was all right. Credit
must go to them, however for their • im~
proniptu' skit-~o informal that scripts were
read out on stage. It was a novelty and we
let it go at that. Then there was a thingamajig about child psychology. Fourtunately
for the~, the audil?nce displayed profoundly
tolefant attitude and merely breathed a sigh
of relief as the curtains were drawn. Next
was a sitar item of which, unfortunately, we
could not have more.
Thus ended the first evening of the Entertainment competition and one wondered what
was in store on the morrow.

(C011td. on page 5 column 3)

Campastimes wishes its
readers the best of

luck

in

the

examination,

fin a'
and

happy holidays.

Elltertail211U1lt :

A Bangra item from YMCA

Mrs. D. V. Reddy judging the paintings

Edited by M. G. Subramanyam, published by The President, Institute Gymkhana lIT Madras, and printed by V. M Philip at the Diocesan Press
for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

