Mardi Gras 84 wheezed, spluttered, coughed and then stopped on the 29th of last month. And for
the first time in the memory of all present, the bone-weary student volunteers, the exhausted coordinators and the crowds, still in festive colours, were dragged back to class on the very next day.
Almost all had ready curses for the men who had done them in, and even the Gajendras were heard stamping their feet in displeasure. But this apart, the most curious event of an extravagant MG 84 was
'The Mystery of the Vanishing Secretaries ". After two 14eeks of frenzied searching, the hunting hounQs
awaiting thepost-mortem and the details of NG expenditure were left tongues lolling, disappointed.
Even as MG dimmed, the 40 Wand 60 W devices in all hostels could be seen working well past midone can safely assume that the residents were not unaware of the approaching quiz cycle. Overheard whispered in many intimate conversations, denounced by all the orators in the mess, complained
about during week-ends and ridiculed by the final years,of late, are the magic words - 'NCC' and 'NSS'
Whose harebrained idea was it to send 'greeting telegrams I during the llTinter to all those who thought
th~ had .1ef!.]~CC . ..a NSS at a safe distance of one to two years behind them?
Why should students be penalized by an orsanisation that chose not to utilize student man-poQer when it was available? The staff
involved would do well to reconsider their unreasonable stand.
nigh~:.

"I don't see why a hostel like ...... should give upll,says one enterprising Hostel Sports Secretary,
in a rabble-rousing message to his sporting audience. Notices announcing inter-hostel sports fixtures
appear regularly, in a striking VIBGYOR colour. The s,~eat and toil for the Schroeter is certainly on.
Irrespective of who wins the cup, it will definitely be fun to participate, and even to cheer and boo,
in the coming matches.
Not very far away, through the mists of mundane involvements~ one can see two huge doors that
will swing silently open in the middle of March. After an intervening year of peaceful slumber, the
Open House greets once again, all those curious outsiders lvho may care to step into our threshold.
Also visible, but farther away, are the many hostel days amidst the video shows and the Saturday night
rituals at OAT. As things stand, the 2nd of May is our Independence Day.

*

*

*

*

*

