5

MARDI GRAS PRIVATE LTD.
A crow cawing raucously. An empty kiosk. A huge tree bearing faded proclamations of the magazines' worth.
Shantikunj it is and just a fortnight after MG. You can clearly make out every person not 5tanding there, every
guitar not being plucked, every gaggle not giggling. Yes, the spirit of MG is still feebly around, though being
mercilessly crushed by the quizzes. Before it lets out its final gawk, let us appraise the IITian image of this
festival.
From as near as Guindy to a place as far away as Delhi, they had come. And swarmed the place. By place, we
mean the area covering HSB, OAT and Shantikunj - less than the ten percent of the campus.
Much smaller than the percentage of land used, is the percentage of IITian involvement. It is not only
Sarayu which has buried itself deep down to send the rabbits sniggering about encroachment, but a great majority
of us, coming to this place in as grand a fashion as the JEE. and then fading, merging unrecognizably into the
background, unidentifiable from the trees and the 'plants, is a sad thing to happen. But it does. And has, for
these peop Ie.
Why have so many gone home during MG?"I'd rather relax than watch those sickening programmes" is often the
reply. But is it really sickening? Or is it that they are not ?hIe to face the fact that they haven't been able
to shine in any field, or even put up a 'freaking out' show? Do they really detest the programmes, or are they
exhibiting withdrawal, a prominent defense mechanism?
The others, who haven't easily accessible homes, resort to other ways. An equal number, if not m~ch greater
than those who attended popular events like JAM and Quiz, has missed it. Quite a few of those who do turn up,
uneasily stick around in groups, trying to overcome the dominant feeling of incompetence by criticising, gesturing
or laughing at even good participants.
The initiated, have smoked more cigarettes than ever before - this being their face-saving image of 'the cool
observer' (or face-saving they think it is). Donned in their best clothes and looking their smartest, they try
their best to look important, and a sort of 'man about the place'. But no, they cannot shrug it off - it is
written dark and clear allover them - they are the faceless commoners.
Some others have stayed back in the hostels, trying to focus a wavering attention to studies, or have tried
to relax in the common room. As for the events, well, thev have gone on without these people, so why shouldn't
these people go on without seeing them?
Is there any way ?f helping so many of us? Can we all be around at MG without feeling lost of frustrated?
Mardi Gras is OUR festIval and we must see to it that it belongs to EVERY.one of us and is not the private
property of a small segmented portion of the IITian populace.
•
SRlRAM. R.

*

*

*

