6

"IS THE LADY MAD?"
"Good morning, darling!". The voice floated up from behind the newspaper, as I stepped
softly out on to the sit-out. I caught my breath. Prahlad had this uncanny ability to sense
the smallest change. And if he looked you in the eye, he could read your thoughts. Even in
the days when I had loved him madly, he had inspired fear in me. Now lihen everything "ras so
completely changed, I lived in a state of constant dread. Some daY,when he grew tired of me
and thought me a nuisance, I knew,that I would be very dead. He always thought himself very
clever; but as things turned out that day, I proved to be cleverer.

I
I

.j

!

I

I

I pulled the night-gown tightly around me and clutching it to my breast, I softly sat
down in the only other chair outside, and turned to watch him. The newspaper came down slowly
and he eyed me speculatively. His eyes probed through the semi-transparent gown. I felt my
whole body tensing involuntarily.
ItW~"lere were you last J?,ight?tr,
froze. "Theconference ended only
ttlt must have been a very private
of suppressed irritation. "Sheila
dropped tae newspaper and got up.

I asked in a strained voice. The melting look in his eyes
at 2 AM". he said and abruptly returned to the newspaper.
conference - just yourself. •.• and Sheila."
saw the look
Nair is my colleague. That is all I know about her". He

Dh! I knew this devil all right. Let a man out of your sight, and you have lost him. I
had watched Pranlad closely in the five years of our marriage: his flirtations with the
servant maid and the clumsy passes he made at his sec'leLclry, in my own house. I put up ,... ith
it, for he always pleaded and apologized so charmingly. But last night, when I tiptoed into
into Sheila's flat, I sa,... his naked guilt at play on the living room carpet: the same loveI
words, kisses and endearments that I had heard in my own bedroom. I returned quietly, undisiJ
covered. But my whole body l\faS afire. So was r.ly !!lind. This time, Prahlad l>lOuld not ~rick me.
! 1'r.1Y not? Vr.'1at could I do? You may ask •.•• and shortly receive an anSl'ler from me.

I

I

L

The

~ tout__w~n,,-w ~~Pty,

but for me •._

~_~o<ke~a<~ and ~:t"

in the <hair, trying

I
I

I

I

:".J

