~-------------------------------------------11-----------------------------------------1

THE SILENT VALLEY

Huge thunder clouds rumbled over the valley.
The howling wind stopped, life stood still
for an instant, then great torrents of rain roared down from the skies. The heavens split open
in a blinding flash of light, a thundering crash shook the jungle and the fall of the forceful
rain on the hard jungle floor sounded like the boom of a thousand drums.
The child huddled in a cave with the animals. Then the sun broke through the clouds and splashed, soothing
warm rays on the cowering jungle. A Mynah sailed out pirouetting in the jungle breeze, whistling softly. A herd
of ehital flashed past in the undergrowth, their dappled coats glistening and weaving a fascinating tapestry in th
sunlight. The breeze coaxed the leaves and flowers away and the butterflies pranced with gay abandon.
The Child stood drinking in the head~ scent of moist earth, his bright eyes dancing. He chased the ~obin and
danced with the butterflies. He stroked the leaves and hugged the grass. A Fawn gambolled over and nuzzled his
hand. The Mynah grew tired and swooping, perched on the boy's head. A group of parakeets zoomed past, calling
har shly, flashing green against a blue-gold sky.
The child wandered through the valley, laughing with the animals, chattering with the birds, Whispering with
the leaves. He listened spell-bound to the bear narrating his great adventures and regretted that he hadn't the
powerful limbs to take him on such rambles; he listened to the mynah and wished he had wings, so he could soar
high, high and embrace the beaming sun; he watched the excited monkeys and wished he could do elegant swings from
tree to tree.
He played with the sun beams and tried to catch them in his tiny hands, and the Sun winked and darted behlnd
the cloud, the child darted behind the tree and both peeped out stealthily at each other and the Sun grinned and
the child danced up and down with excitement.
The jungle loved its child. The trees bent over with delight as he gambolled playfully at their fee~. Even
the stern old-fashioned banian tree couldn't resist this gurgling bundle of energy and flapped its a~lns with
pleasure.
One day, a great army of men descended on the valley and began cutting the trees down. til heard them say",
chi rped the Mynah. ff that they were going to cut down the enti re forest and bui ld a great ci ty here". "And they are
your kind", he added sorrowfully. The Chjld was eager to see his kind. He set out forthwith and came within sight
of the woodcutter's camp in two days. He hid himself and gazed at them fearfully.
The men picked up their axes, advanced to the line of trees and began attacking them with gusto. They looked
up in astonishment as a wild-eyed, long-haired, naked boy raced towards th~m from the jungle edge, gesticulating
madly and mouthing a strange tongue. Some men grabbed the Child and he was taken, kicking and struggling and
placed in an enclosure. The meb sat around it and gazed at the boy in wonder. The Child prowled about like a
beast in a cage. They placed some food for him. and resumed their work. The axes swung relentlessly and so~n,
a sizable clearing was made. The Child huddled in a corner, tearless eyes staring.
For two days and nights, the men hacked a clearing through the tangled vegetation. The next morning, the

