12
cook came over~but the curled-up form in the corner do not stir.
cold.

He poked it gently with his foot.

The bodv fel~

A terrible silence descended on the valley. The sun disappeared behind a low cloud. The trees stood gaunt an
sorrowful. The leaves cast down their faces. The wind cried mournfully in the undergrowth. The deer crouched in
terror; the birds huddled fearfully in the branches. The forest brooded over its dead Child.
That morning two men were killed, when the trees they were cutting fell on them. A great fear filled the
hearts of the men. The silenc~~nnerving. The sound of axes agaist wood was like pistol shots in the air.
Another tree cracKed and injured a man. The men were terrified. The Gods were furious. The place was cursed. They
fled from the valley.
The jungle grew anew over its ugly sore. But it could not mend the gash in its heart.
was dead. And the Valley remained silent for ever

The Child of Nature
MANI SUNDARAM

lThL6

lVt.ti~te. WM

avJlVt.ded :the 2nd PJt.ize .in :the CJte.ative WJt-tting Compe:ti..:ti..on dwr.,[ng MG 84)

*

*

*

THE MONK
That night he slept badly. He tossed and turned in bed, a million thoughts rushiing through his brain like a
tornado. He thought of his blossoming life, conjured up a view of his parents, whom he had never seen, and
wondered about his new life, the lire that had been gifted to him by powers his adolescence could not accept, or
rather, would refuse to accept.
He tried to discard all thoughts of his life at the monastery, but did not succeed in taking away his spirit
to that'Shangrila'which he thought, existed outside the domain of the crude, archaic stone building. The thought 0
his present life were steadfast, indelible, and his forced mental ablutions could not give him that exhilarating
feeling of youth and freedom he so badly wanted.
He respected the head Brahmin, but was disgusted with this life - a life he thought to be so languid and
inconspicuous, a life he thought to be so much like the high walls of a prison,a life that prevented him from
partaking of his emotional enfranchisement, a life he did not want to live!
Li fe,i t is known, is in Uvbl.g,no~· in vc-i..J.>Ung - in this region of ,purity and sanctity, his idea of life was
existence. He loved to abhor it.

*

*

*

When the morning bell chimed, he could not rise. When he woke, all around him was silent, and his comparions
had left for the sanctum sanctorum to give to the Almighty their daily vocal offerings. The young fellow hated
this too, for he throught that he could not sing. He aslked out in his saffron robe, aS3c.tilty, and stood to the
ide of the temple, listening to the hymn - the rise, the fall, the divine ecstacy - All these feelings left on him

