14
The young monks were all singing a melancholy and s,n.ster hymn; staccato voices throbbed and drummed, ••• The
spires collapsed, the dome fell ••• His hallucinations became more foul, more sinister and spiritually lacerating.
The priest suddenly awoke. He had a peculiar nightmare - of sinister laughs and hymns, of domae and temples
crashing on him, of dieties laughing mockingly. The morning was yet untouched and even the soft pitter-patter of
the rain drops against the pane could not rupture its silent purity. He thought he heard a low moan. He rose,looked out through the small window and saw ~ small figure at the temple door through sleepy, watering eyes. The
figure thrashed out in restlessness. He put a plastic cover over his head, took his stick and braved the rain.
He found the boy.
Two days later, the young monk was dead - as close to God as he never had wished to be. After bis cremation,
all his companions went to the temple hall, and sang low, soft, soothing songs, amidst the rising, fragrant wisps
of incense smoke.
11

11

*
&NCC

11

RAJAT MUKHERJEE

NSS
IT IS TIME FOR A CHANGE
It seems ironical that in a campus where
there is an enormous scope for extracurricular
activities, t;1e students have to compulsorily
take up the HSS or the ;'~CC (if not the NSO).
These organisations seemingly cannot exist
wi t"ilOut compulsion. If t;1ey are to develop
certain qualities in students, t;1e students
must have a liking for t:1em. If tl1ey are
to extract work from students, tae worK must
be useful to some one. Tnis article is not an
analysis of t:1ese organisations but of why
students don't ShO"1 enough interest in them.
In t~e last few years, the need to fulfil
a certain amount of work as required by the
Governmen t .1as led NSS to undertaking \vork for
works sake. In 1980, a survey was conducted in
Taramani village asking the villagers what plan~s
they wanted - the NSS nad no funds to supply
tnese plants. Since HCC required a day of
social service, about 90 volunteers went to
~arayanapuram and started digging a pond, only

to leave it in a condition much WOTse than
what i t ;1ad been in. The vi'llagers who ",ere
being served were not to be seen anyw~ere nea
Many excuses may be given, but the fact this
disillusioned the students, cannot be denied.
gost of the NSS executive meetings were
centred on the problen of creating work and
extracting attendance from the volunteers.
¥fuen the taxpayers in a village go completely
neglected by the Government, is distributing
old clothes to them a satisfactory solution?
Are collecting old clothes and making brownpaper covers the right kind of service an lIT
student can render to the country? Some NSS
organisers feel so. They may be justifie~,
but do they ~ave the rig~t to impose such
works on the ~apless volunteers? Can't
refrain from work till we have decided upon
right course of action?
As regards iJCC, most of the students
attend the parades and lectures with no real

