CAMPASTIMES

[Fall 1971

GYMKHANA INAUGURAL

THE CONVOCATION

Believe me, it was as formal and as sober
as It always Is-but the only difference that
this time It WllS followed up with the kind of
feehng you have when you wake up from
sleep at 1000 a m. We have Just dragged on
SIX weeks of mactIVlty, after which we are
mtroduced to a bunch of lads who have
become old pals even to the freshers and
Bhatia, General Secretary-elect rattles away
with nothmg new, but full of meaning and he
IS the type who sets even the dunce thlllkmg
hard. In hiS maugural address, he has more
than concentratcd On the attltude of faculty
members, and the admmlstratlOl\ and he hopes
to help change this attitude more to the
students' advantage. HIS seemingly ' sharp,
razor-edged replies' to VIJay's queries, printed
elsewhere m this Issue, are certamly more
frank, exphclt and reflective and they seem
to take us deeper mto hiS field of thought
and Ideas.

Well, so here we are, WIth Campastlmes,
late as usual, welcommg you back to the
sweaty stickmcss of Madras.
The first
event, the Convocation
What the ConvocatIOn teaches us every year, 13 that
the Institute never learns. In spite of
anguIshed cnes and scathmg cntlclsm m
Campastlmes, It sull remams the gaudy,
undignified affair It used to be. In fact, tlus
year It was even more gan~h than usual.

emment sClenlists who were also good speakers,
Bhagavantam for one, Dr Menon IS not one
of them, and so he did not have that easy flow
of words which makes a speech worth llstenmg.
Two pomts with which I was particularly
IIIterested all mstltuteq of higher learlllng
should be uselt to bnng change m 'economic,
sCIentific, technological, IIIdustnal and SOCial
spheres '.

2

The Deputy Director, 10 reply, seems to have
taken a highly sympathetic attitude towards
tlllS sudden upsurge of a feeling of dlsappomtment on the part of the student community He seems to feel that iliere are
mistakes committed on both sides and everyone,
at least to start With, IS entertamed With a
fumt hope that everything will be all nght
before the end of thiS year or even earher.
There IS a general feelmg, not altogether
baseless, that the standard of entertamment
here IS slowly tapering down to utter
medlOcnty-but the maugural entertamment
doesn't seem to have either proved or
dlSproved thiS pomt It wasn't to our expectation-that for sure-but It was obvIOUS that
the professionals have suddenly taken an
mdlfferent atlitude towards everything and
the poor blgshots had to go huntmg and fill
in the decent minimum tune wLth talents
But one profeSSIOnal who gave us all a hope
of a campus renaissance and who held the
audIence m raptures for a few mmutes was
Ananthaknshnan. ThiS lad, hke a descendant
from Greek mythology, seems to have that
magic touch and I am sure our tasteful and
appreciative lIT audience Will have occasIOn
to hear more of hiS masterpIeces m the years
to come. With the Inter-hostel entertamment
fast approaching, It IS now time for the
social secretanes to thmk of somethmg better
than what we had for the Inaugural.
R. DDJIAI.

Startmg With a guard of honour by the
N.C C. (Oh, the happme~s of qneermg at the
poor ~Iobs on parade and reahzmg that the
ngours of N C C are, With the commg of
t1urd year, thankfully ended for ever and ever),
the long slow walk of the Chid Guest and the
Senate on to the stage m time to musIc by
the ever-present poltce band, and the mvocatlon which nobody understood but which
everybody agreed Was Sl1le qua 11011, the Convocatton was well under way.
The formal part of the proceedmgs, the
award of degrees prll.es etc, went off
~moothly enough, the Ph.D part of It bemg
enlIvened by cheers of wonderment when
tutors and lecturcrs whom one had thought
were pretty well on the thick Side became
Doctors of Philosophy and the fragtle dlgmty
of the B T ech bemg Injured bycnes of' Lala "
'Watsa' etc A few squlrmlngs and shlflmgs
over, the Chauman of the Board of Governors,
Mr. H. V. R Iellgar began a speech which
for a moment tended dangerously towards
the autobiographical but which later reverted
to hiS usual qUip-laden style, and then It was
dusk and time for the lIT to SWitch on
for the benefit of Its audience Its Display of
ElectriC Llghtmg (see the projection room
Illummated pmk, see the Administrative block
lighted from top to toe, see the strmgs of
multicoloured bulbs hghung the trees. Do not
miss thiS wonderful spectacle which occurs
Just once a year). What I don't understand
about the whole gaudy affatr IS that If the lIT
wanted to turn Its convocation mto a fairyland
by night, why didn't It advertise outSIde
and charge the public an entrance fee and
make some tash. out of It
On second
thoughts, however, I guess they realized that
not many people are mugs enough to come all
the way here to see a 'Purgo)ax' type of
advertisement.
The twenty mmutes or so of the Chief
guest's speech were pretty bormg, the reason
bemg that even though there have been

( When the pie was opened, the birds began to sing'

The other, that sCIence should be taught
in the natIVe languages and not always In
English
And then, at last, the graduands were
repeatmg the oath (never to pass their bps
agatn) and we were walkmg back past the
two neon arrows which had vamly tned to
convmce the Chief guest that the fUnctIOn had
taken place on top of palm trees

COMPU.n: THE SHORT STORY

(IN NOT MORE mAN 2000
WORDS)
FABULOUS PRIZE FOR THE WINNER
He saw her blue eyes droop down as she
looked at the mirror and he knew that all was
lost:I
(or)
'Remorse is a damp cigarette and pain the
shortage of soda m WhIsky. LIfe can't be
better' he muttered, shifting the load to the
right hand.

They were all there

