Fall 1971]
Do you feel that the film club should be
brought into the Gymkhana '1
If that is the only way we can get to
choose the mO'l-les ourselves, Ycs.
If It does come mto the Gymkhana, don't
you feel that, becau~e of the work involved m choosmg and acqUlttmg the
films, there should be a Film Club
Secretary?
Yes.
How do you think he should be chosen?
Appomted by the General Secretary and
Entertainment Secretary.
Last vear there were plans to have a rock
festival m the Campus. Do you plan to
follow It up thiS year?
If somebody can find me enough groups
with standard, and who are wltimg to
come all the way here to play for us,
okay by me.
Do you plan anything way-out for the
cultural week ?
Somebody mentioned thiS to me. once
that we should get all the p[lze wmners
from the vanous colleges to get together
and give us a super-duper show later. I
think It IS a very good Idea.
Do you want the musIc club in the
Gymkhana?
No for two reasons.
It seems to be running pretty well
autonomously.
Its more a staff affair than ours.
What was your first reactlOn when you
learnt that you won?
First reaction or second reaction (Give
all three).
These were my reactions in chronological
<lrder.
(I) Exhilaration.
(11) ApprehensIOn.
(m) Resignation.
Dovou thmk that the inter-lIT entertamme;'t should be revived during the mterlIT meet?
TlJDe IS of the essence. GlVen a co Iple
()f days more, It should be possible and
I am sure It will be a thumpmg success.
Why rod you stand for FlOe-Arts Secretary?
Because there is a heck-of-a-lot to be done
.and I am to do It
What was your first reachon when you
learnt that you had been elected?
I was depressed and embarrassed.
What do you feel about the present
system of electIOn to Gymkhana?
Its okay, only ItS helluva fag
One man one vote.
I thmk ItS a very bad idea.
Why IS It a bad Idea?
Because It leaves the Situation open for
-outside politICS.
Ladles-4 votes.
No.
Why?
They hardly take part in any activity.
They don't even try to.
What do you thInk made you win?
Heckava lot of people voted for me.
What are your plans for thIS year?
Stop gettmg personal.
I mean what are your plans for the fine.arts club?
A lot of guys are interested in art but
they are shy to come forward. I am
thmkmg of making the whole thmg more
Informal and more accesslble to everybody. The art appreciation gathenng IS
gomg to be such It creates an awareness
1n art and not so much the Crt tical dlscus:sian that It Was before. Art classes Will
be held regularly, more to teach you art
as such rather than to pamt.
But don't you thmk most of the buddmg
artISts would lIke to learn the skIll?
Skill comes through practice and IS very
personal. What you should know 19
where to start and be gUided and not
taught.
What about the photographic club?
I haven't yet any extraordmary plans.
I shall dISCUSS It With th<- rest of the
-committee and then do something about
It.
About the sculpture club-Last year

CAMPASTIMES
there was a very poor response-What do
you plan to do about It.
The sculpture club shall be a part of the
art club bccau~e the stuff that was bought
last year can be raised thiS year too.
Do you feci that last year there was much
activity m your sphere?
A lot of thmgs were started, though the
response was pretty poor. There seems
to be a lot of mdlfference m lIT.
Commg back to the art apprecIatlon
gathermgs, what are your speCific plans?
I am thmkmg of Invltmg a couple of
artists and a sculptor to brIng some of
their works and dISCUSS them. QUIte a
few other artists will be called to make It
more comprehenSive. The diSCUSSIOn
need not be confined to skill etc., because
art IS much more than that. It would be
nice If other coIleges participate In thIS.
I thmk art IS a personal thmg that cannot
be dIscussed-Comment.
Art IS personal alright. But for people
who don't have a conceptIOn of art a
diSCUSSion would open them out to pomts
of view. Even an artist needn't be
rIght. The only way he finds a way out
of Ius problems IS by a diSCUSSion.
Actually there IS more to It than thIS.
Are you planning to start any few actIvitiCS m the fine-arts club?
No. Neither faclhtles nor the time is
available for very deep Involvement ID art.
The only thlllgs we can do IS to get the
guy started. Then ItS hiS problem.
Do you thmk the film club should be
brought IDto the Gymkhana.
ObViously.
Do you think it should be under the
entertamment committee or under the
fine-arts commIttee?
In the other colleges its under the finearts committee. The entertamment secretary has enough work already-So the
film club can come under the fine-arts
comrmttee.
Do you want it under your commIttee?
No, because fine-arts secretaries' work
will become too dIVerse.
The entertamment secretary, you say,
has a lot of work, and your committee's
work WIll become too diverse. So what
do you suggest?
Have an all powerful film club secretary
lIke In the days of yore.
How do you thmk, this film club secretary
be selected?
Votmg by the members of the Gymkhana.
Any comments about Campastlmes?
The students should have a vOice when it
comes to choosmg the EdItor (No offence
meant).
Do you have anything to say to the
CampastImes ?
Joy to the world..
All the boys and gIrls,
Joy to the fishes.
In the deep blue sea,
And JOY to you and me.
Even a superfiCial look at these interviews
makes It plain that not all the seCretaries feel
the sa:ne way about many Important problems.
ThiS IS understandable sIDce they did not Win
on the same platform but sad nevertheless
and bodes III for a coheslve Gymkhana.
For example on such an lIDportant Issue hke
one man, one vote, whereas Mr. Bhatia says:
• That IS somcthmg which I have always
stood by', the External Affairs Secretary
Mr.lftlquar Ahmed says, • Umversal franchIse
beSides being a costly effort would mean a
shghtly less mtelhgent electorate', a really
astoUlshmg statement commg as It does from
a very responsible office-bearer. How IS the
Gymkhana gOing to do anythmg If It doesn't
know which way It IS pullmg?
All the mtervlews do reveal a commendable
spint of enterprise but sometimes one feels
there IS very lIttle pOSItive thmkmg to follow
up the spmt. Some of the statements made
by Mr. Bhatia glaringly Illustrate thiS. In
answer to one of my questIOns Mr BhatIa
said • Our prevIOus Gymkhanas have substantIated the fact that a student body that
does nothing IS worse than the worst Estabhsh~
mcnt; GO far in the last 1~ years, the only

people who have done anything are the
secretaries'. Fot my next question, he says
• There hasn't been a strike m 12 years and
It IS better If we don't break the record.'
A glanng mconslstency IOdeed. On the one
hand he nles at the inactivity of hiS predecessors but follows It up ImmedIately by
trymg to chng on to their record. Such
statements d() not take away from the strength
of Mr. BhatIa's arguments. But they show
you a confUSion III thmkmg which "'ould have
been better absent. Also, In spite of strong
statements regardmg .,tudent power, he has
not been able to cite one partIcular Instance
on which he would be takmg a stand (The
Issue of the film club IS tflv/al and has no
relevance to bIgger problems) The most
chantable mterpretatlOn for thiS could be that
there are no speCific problems which as a
natural Consequence means that there was no
great urgency for Mr. Bhatia to contest for
the post at all.
ThiS analYSIS though admittedly critIcal
does not mean that we refute what has been
said; In fact It IS nothmg of the sort. All
that It means IS we can only watch and walt,
hopmg that people who make the deCISions
for us know what they are dOing.

mE WHAM DHAM mANK
YOU PAPA AFFAIR
It was the 18th of July. BIrd (an IlTmn
whom we shall call by that name) was happy.
He was gomg back to lIT, but hiS return
had an added kick to It-he had hIS new gas
driven two-wheeler to pollute the pleasant
atmosphere of lIT. He had dreamt of
coursing along those roads (ah ! those curves)
on hiS velucle. Alack I What he did not
know was Fu Manchu's liT counterpart
had been at work. Anyway' BIrd' (our hero
that It IS, please don't confuse with the birds
nestmg tn Sarayu) finally came chppmg Illto
the campus on that fateful night. Suddenly
he saw what he thought was a zebra crossing.
Bemg a thick head he thought It was the deer
who crossed there and sped on, when wham!
and our hero and hiS gas dnven steed became
part of a CirCUS motorcycle act. BIrd, much
to hiS contentment, found hImself up above
and thought he was astnde a mechamcal
pegasus, when bham!
One needs only to add that another soul
has been added to that long hst of members of
the IIT flat foot's club.
Moral: Have a bIke which has a padded
seat.

Hmurnc.

CONSOLATION
To Love
and lose
IS not not to love
To be cut
And to bleed
IS not to be dead
-LIsten tremblIng heart
Love for none but love
And death
you'll bleed If you're made of blood.

MOMENTS
The sudden flash of beauty
I see the sky
And the treesthe cold tWlckmg nose of a
fawn the lovely soft coatSights
And sounds
Surround the vibrating leaf
What, says she
Do you mean.
I say nothing for
The moment IS no more.
GAUTHAM.
GOPALARATNAM.

