CAMPASTIMES

8

[Fall ]971

REFLECTIONS IN AN
UNWASHED EYE
To use a well-known phrase, I guess I am
what you would caU one of the Silent MaJonty
m Agnewesque or the central bloc In homegrown ,argon. Here, though, I seem to be
one what IS called the great unwashed. ThiS
title was fOIsted on me and a number of other
fellows the day we stepped like babes mto
thiS wood. It's been quite a mystery to us
why THEY settled for that phrase, because
frankly, we are all the healthy outdoor types.
And I do bathe mote often than most of those
eXlstentJahsts. To trace my development
(vocal and intellectual) you need not go far.
Sure enough, I soon found out the different
sub-speCies that coexist In these sylvan
surroundmgs. QUite a few of us caught on
pretty fast to the fact that the first step to do,
label or derecogmse yourself was to articulate
the phrase 'The Establishment' when a few
ears that counted were m the Immediate
Vlcmity. ThIS thmned down the ranks of the
unwashed considerably.
Another way of domg the Horatio Alger bit
was to mdulge m casual name-droppmg
(Mader was handy).
Of course, you had to remember that when
that conglomeratIon of sounds (from three
ampbfied guitars runmng amuck plus a set
of distinctly off-beat drums), you had to
COme up With· Hey I the Doors are fantastic,
but those guys are pretty good '. You also
had to exercise your vocal chords dutifully
when anyone who had the brams (and guts)
to stage anythmg dIfferent came on.
But. bemg young and beautiful, the
embryomc unwashed VOiced hiS opmlOn of
tlungs that seemed strange to hiS stmple soul.
It wasn't long before I started nottcmg
strange thmgs happemng. WIthermg looks
and outright condemnation were the weapons
and It was open season on you as far as you
could see. The unwashed was blamed from
everythmg to anythmg.
You were blasted by those 'strange nowhere
men' of the rag, abandoned as hopeless by
the am~ba (they have pseudo-podia, nng
any bells ?), and of course (well, you see, my
dean gIrl, It s thiS way. The maJonty of the
chaps are rather •.••. welJ, you know the
kind. Those fellows seem to thmk we InVIte
you to measure the thickness of your skin).
Huh! The sight of the Mailers and
Sarbes and Rands hurlmg paper rockets
(mustn't forget the reverse SophistIcatIOn
crowd Mad etc.) almost turned me mto an
effete snob.
Everyone of the great unwashed reaches a
a stage where he should have got a hang-up
by all the rules. But he doesn't. He stopS,
thtnks (yes, thmks) and looks around him.
The realtsatIon dawns on him that Its Just a
case of gbbness passmg for perception and
mSlght; a command of U.S. slang for depth
of knowledge and how I
What do you think he thInks of the BMOC
(Big Man On Campus) who declares In the
rag that lIke a good Door you gotta 'lIght my
fire'. Oh boy I (Any self-respecting pop
{an would have known Fehclano was the guy
who dId' Light my Fire' first and that the
Doors just lifted It; so much for htm )
The unwashed one's next ego booster comes
along when he overhears the camp phtlosopher
and ReSident Rand diSCUSS Airport 'Superb
dIrection I' (In case you are wondermg, they
hadn't read TIME's reVlew of It then). A
week later, Rand himself was tellmg me how
the' Silent MaJority' crowd would Just lap up
Airport.
Of course, the final link m the unwashed
one's cham-mall was prOVided by the laughs
he had at their expense over the only bit of
sertous dramatics THEY ever made us watch.
THEY include the 'Strange nowhere men'
too (for theIr reView bIt) Strangely enough,
the poor chaps seem to be under the delUSIOn
that a poster must last untIl the next show
opens
But then, he's been wary of those strange
nowhere men ever smce he realtsed that you
bad to conform to Jom the bull-pen gang at
the rag.
So, the great unwashed grows up learns
all about' em and walks hiS path, kec~mg hIS
oWn counsd; and what happens? I hear
we're gettmg a new label; snobs.
GEORGE JOHN

BRAINWASH?

Our campus IS known (outside) for Its
actIvIty mtellectual atmosphere (lord bless 'em
mtellectuals I) and last but not the least, Its
beauty-and naturally, things go on and on in
per/eet obedience to the laws of nature and
Somehmes lfl disobedience too-and not all of
them go unnoticed-the mtellectual comes up
WIth some bramy remark, the Jolly bloke
converts It mto a laugh, the cynic has somethtng nasty to say and a guy hke me starts
wntmg about them.
After two and a half months of I-know-notwhat, I am sure If at all there IS somethmg
whIch could have drawn a few unpnntable
curses from Manu-a citizen of our campus, It
must have been that set of black and white
projectIons we find wherever they are not
wanted. If one expects these speed breakers
(or should I call them spine breakers) to help
our CItizens sleep In peace, he IS mistaken
smce an acceleratmg mo-bIke brIngs hell down
to earth.
GOIng up to Adyar has always been somethmg which every IITlan re,orts to when he
has nothmg else to do-and till some tlme
back, these crawling mountains used to be at
our serVice Now, times have changed and
these snow-clad peaks have changed mto
stationery monuments of the glory of the past.
ThiS state of affans has led to the formulatIOn
of three laws of nature (I) If you are gOing
to Adyar, walk It, blke It, hike It or else, gIVe
It up (2) If you are In a hurry to go to class,
cut the class (]) Every form of transport in
the campus shall carry the maximum number
of persons It can carry.
Everyone knows that IIT-M has got a name
for the highly practical courses offered but If
one cares to ask any graduate who has passed
out of thiS place, one can understand that
there IS more to It than what meets the eye.
Gomg to the laboratory here)s Just another
form of a VISIt to a museum-only dIfference
IS that when you come out, no one asks you
for a solid lot of pages of wntten matter,
bordered In red, underhned m black and
green. We are conSidered such great heroes
that we are normally reqUired to work on an
expenment, the background for Which may be
gIVen later. Everyone practically walks in
and walks out dazed-and more often than we
expect-we hear of certam of our fflends
gettmg fired for havmg faithfully followed the
InstructIon sheets supplied slmply because
those sheets happen to be more than eight
years old.
After gOlllg up and down a dozen speed
breakers, perhaps our friends mIght have
bnghtened up With the news that spreads ltke
fortst fire-half a dozen new guls among
the freshers-and some experts In statistiCS,
encouraged by thiS highly geometnc progression (or somethtng near to It) are trYing to
Imagme five ladles' hostels in the campus. A
trend towards co-educatlon lU technology has
now become eVident and It IS high time, we
focus our attentIOn on thiS matter. Our
system of educatIOn IS probably not SUited for
ladles-probably, some girls are really mterested In the technological development of our
country and they are forced to adjust themselves to somethmg which might throw cold
\Vater on their SplfltS. A few drastiC changes
m the sy~tem for the ladles alone may not be
a bad IU' a at all. A little less of workshop
and more of managLment and ' human
engmeerlng' could be more attractive to the
young mcmber~ of the fair sex.

R.

DORAI.

Something IS senously amiss at OAT. Two
hundred years ago, I would have entItled
thiS amele 'In whIch Ye Hero Smells Ye
Rat'. For a rat Jt IS that my keen nose has
smelt. There was a time when a man could
go to OAT on a Saturday evenmg, expecting
to renew an old friendship \\olth Dean Martm
or some such schmoe. You could saunter In
half an hour late and not miss much. You
could almost Imagme a kmdly senIOr adVISing
a fresher who had turned up at OAT at 7-45,
'Now, these thmgs Simply aren't done, you
know I Bad form, rather,' or words to that
effect. Where, I ask, did those days go ?
Now all thiS IS p.\ft of some Dastardly Plot,
obViously the bramchlld of a vengeful Estabhshment. It stands to reason that whoever
IS capable of inventmg penodlcal~ and speedbreakers IS capable of anythmg, Have you
noticed that the last few films have been
almost good, With the exceptIOn of the Sovexport farces. And by the way, small wonder
that films ltke Operation Tigers and T-J4 are
exclUSively for export-they must be part of
a top-secret programme of psychological
warfare. By subtly dishing out a bIt ot the
usual trash along With an apparently lnslgmficant number of good-I choke on the word;
calhng an OAT movie good IS nothlDg short
of sacnleglOus-films, the EstablIshment IS
trymg to lull us mto a false sense of secunty.
The urge to Sit back and say, 'Now I can
relax and watch a good lousy mO"le!' IS
overwhelmmg.
But what do you thInk IS actually happening? Now the great unwashed actually arnve
In tIme for the movies.
From sheer force of
habit, I found myself In App Mechs. class a
whole mmute before time. That IS where the
whole fiendishness of the scheme lIes. Some
major cog III the general scheme ofthmgs, has
probably bought hImself a book on psychology
or a do It yourself btt on the same subject.
And when I discover that I've fimshed my
drawmg a week 1Il advance, I know that
said cog has been putting In a lot of effort Into
hla homework. And what of the non-plastIC
screen, I ask' They're trymg theIr damndest to see that us poor fish turn up for the
OAT movies. If a plastic screen helps to
achleve the deSired object, so much the
better.
What about orange peel? No rhetOrical
questIOn, thIs. There was a tlme when we
were served oranges In the mess on
Saturdays, fallmg which ",e used to get sWeet
hmes. What has happened to 'em now?
They've been replaced by a couple of lousy
bananas and a few grapes. What, I ask you,
Can a young man who has set hiS aim high
do With a banana skm? And dId you eVer
try throwmg a grape at somebody. Just take
a dekko at the cfIcket team's throwmg or the
basketballers' shootmg ! Can you really
blame them when the very foundations of
sport are qUlvenng beneath their feet? Some
kindly personage has eVen blown the bus
schedules sky-high Now you can't even
make a dash for freedom If you want to.
MAHESH.

Logike-IIT Style
, PerIodicals are sick' 'cause
A penodlcalls, as you know, a magazme,
A magazme IS a chamber of a gun,
Gun was a final year blole,
Gun stayed In Narmada,
Narmada 1$ next to Godavari,
God,lVan flows near Bombay,
Engineer plays for Bombay,
Engmeer USes Rrylcreem,
Bry1creem IS found III the Icecreams
of Coronet (and/or Kmck Knack)
And so they're helluva Sick I
-GOWRI

SHANKAR

