-2[CAMPASTIMES is glad to announce a new serial by natural historian Mr.Hairy Pillar.
Mr, Hairy Pillar needs no introduction to the readers of Hindian Expre8s~
Long back in the periolithic age, when the great diroeaurus ruled over this land, there
were large number of species thriving in the dense tropical jungles of 11TH. With the
cuttino of a large number of trees & bushes for parking lots etc. the number of species
in 111M jungles is slowly decreasing. Many of them are on the verge of extinction.
"CAMPUSTIMUS" is a very rarely seen species now. Even the older ones of this species
are sighted very rarely on windows. The gymkhana too does not have this species any more,
it seems this particular variety does not breed in captivity.
EVOLUTION OF CAMPUSTIMUS
One of the earliest varieties of Dirosaurus was Profu.CynicuB Gupto. This Diro. ordered
one of its clan members Nicolaus Kleinica (generally known as Nirmalica Kleinica) to
evolve by adaptation, mutation or otherwise a new species belonging to the genus 'Campus
papyrus' on or before 15th Aug.l962 A.P. (After Periolithio age).
Nicolaus Klein's properties of quick adaptability are well-known (If you dodtt know,
read footnotes). N.Klein's excellent mutation & adaptation characteristics helped a great
deal in evolving the new species. The procedure followed was simple. N.Kleinica subjected
the latent potential in the general population to a heavy dose of inspirays in his
Germanotron.
The new species was evolved quick~r than expected. This left the Institute taxonomjsts
at a loss for a specific name. Once again N.K1einica subjected the general population to a
heavy dose of inspirays (300 Ruries) and the name 'CAMPUSTIMUS' was officially chosen.
Campustimus seems to have been a domesticated species, occasionally it did escape to the
wilderness.
SYMBIOTIC RELATIONSHIP: 'Campustimus' developed a symbiotic relationship with another
species called 'Publisherica IITCa' (common name: 'Publisher'). There were different
varieties of 'Publisherica IITCa' , some helped 'Campustimus' , others were indifferent.
The path to extinction: It is an inexplicable fact that the fertile jungles of IITM
made 'Campustimus' sterile. Every year Publisher & Editoricus had to get together and
coerce the local popUlation to bring forth new issues of 'Campustimus' and this was a
laborious process. As days passed by,the local population grew immune to all appeals and
'Campustimus' appeared very rarely, it retreated into the jungles. If you sight any
• Camp us timus , please telephone'me,GOD(327)
Save your wildlife
Save 'campustimus'
Editors' note: Feed 'Campustimus'. Give your contributions to Hairy Pillar who has the
largest collection of 'Campustimus' •

**.

HIGGLEDY BY
- PIGGLEDY
Dr. M,ANTHONV REDDV

Hearken to this official proclamation:
No special day is today for our nation,
And so, to honour this, have we this day
Declared henceforth No-Special-Feastday Holidayl
Not a particularly good translation, but at least it captures something of the
flavour of the original by Christian Morgenstern, a humorist and minor poet, whom the
unending procession of holidays in the Germany of his time annoyed as much as it dops me
in the India of mine. A day or two off every ten years or so is a very good thing. and
in fact even a must for everybody, but what we have here is quite unreasonable. How, one
wonders, is a subject to be properly taught, when hour after precious hour of lecturetime is lost because every second day is a holiday. One foams at the mouth over this, but,
accepting What cannot be changed, spends these days-off getting to know such worthies as
Morgenstern, to discover whom one would otherwise never have found the time. The holidays
one hates afford one the leisure to stumble on obscure verse poking fun at endless holiday ••
Another holiday-discovery I'd recommend is the Devil's Dictionary of Ambrose Bierce.
Specimen definitions: Saint - a dead sinner, edited and revised; Air - a gaseous substance
abundantly created by Providence for the sustenance of the poor. Nor can I pass on without
mentioning H.L.Mencken. "When the Pilgrim Fathers landed in America, they fell first on
their knees and then on the nativesl" Such is the man in good form.
I am very serious about humour, but that's not all I read. Smiley, I notice. has
finally triumphed. Karla of Moscow Centre is at last tumbled, forced to cross over to the
West and give himself up to British Intelligence. Smiley's lever is Karla's love for the
troubled dauqhter he has had secretly admitted to an institution in Switzerland for the

