-3mentally afflicted. This is the substance of 'Smiley's People' • John Le Carre's recent
book. which leaves George Smiley with nothing more to achieve. One hopes nevertheless
that this is not the last we shall hear of him. Le Carre is very readable, ano George
Smiley appealing because of all the things he is not. He is not young and handsome, he
is not a firm believer in the absolute rightness of his own side, he is not a winner in
personal life.
Not by reading satire and h\~our and spy-stories alone. however, does one become
worthy of admission to the Kingdom of Heaven. For this one needs to have made the acquaintance of a few major poets, persons who sing of things that are not of the passing hour.
A favourite, as far as I am concerned. is Yeats. Approaching forty, I have not received
advice from any living fziend, so gloriously worded as this from a man several decades
dead:
No longer in Lethean foliage caught
Begin the preparation for your death
And from the fortieth winter by that thought
'rest every work of intellect or faith,
And everything that your own hands have wrought,
And call those works ~ctravaganc~ of breath
That are not suited for such men as oeme
Proud, open-eyed and laughing to the tomb.
**It
I recall speaking in an earlier issue of Campastimes of fishkeeping as an easy and
very beautiful way of bcinging a touch of nature inbo our homes. Taking up this thread
again I'd like to talk now of a particular species of fish: Paracheirodon Innes! as the
ichthyologists call it. or, if one prefers the popular name. the neontetra. Among fresh
water fish the charac!n family, distributed over South America and Africa. contains som~
of the most colourful species and of thes~ thp neon-t~tra is undoubtedly one of the most
beautiful. This is an inch-long fish found in 2eru a~a Brazil in tributaries of the Amazon,
slender and pleasingly shaped, with an in~ensely iridoscent blue stripe from eye to tail
set off by a very bright red on the bcdy below the ::ztripe. 'l'he effect produced is not
easily described. and has to be seen to be belicv~d. To ~e this is not merely a fish. It
is a lesson. With a spare body because it eats ver~ little, it has such an intense glow
as to be almost not of this world. ~hich is what we are expected to become, at the highest
level of development: simple in our wants, with no superfluous flesh, and with the life of
the spirit shining in us. There is a sermon in everything, if we keep our eyes open.
I bave a large school of these little jewels: around a hundred of them in a big tank
with attractive water-plants painstakingly arranged so that the fish are displayed as they
should be. A group of this size In an environment so lovely is not an everyday sight.
Anyone who is drawn to the glory of living things is welcome to visit me any evening. He
will see something memorable.
Keeping creatures of such great beauty alive and healthy 'requires not merely the
willingness to do the associated work but also a certain amount of gadgetry: filtersystems. aerator-pumps. special lights to stimulate water-plante to luxuriant growth. All
these lowe to former students now in the United States. I'd like to acknowledge here
their helpfulness and generosity. Trying to do one's job as a teacher conscientiously
sometimes brings rewardS more tangible than just the awareness of having done one's duty

*.*

.

Year after year a large number of our best students leave the country for higher
study in the United States. This is as it should be, because a stay abroad of a few years,
at a university of a quality not found in India, is beneficial not merely from the narrow
viewpoint of acquiring a finish in a particular branch of technology or science. What is
not as it should be is that few of these students seem to return. Of late the subjected
has cropped up frequently in private discussion. It may not be out of place to talk of
it publicly here.
It is not hard to understand why, after finishing the necessary stint of graduatestudy there. many of our best brains choose to stay on in faculty-positions at uniVersities in the United states rather than come back to India. Conditions for advanced study
and research are better there, and one has a much greater chance of doing creative, egosatisfying work in one's field. Life in general is more comfortable there, and. which
must be an important factor to quite a few, the pay is better and a life-style can be
maintained which would be impossible in India. The decision to stay on is comprehensible.
As to whether it is ethical is another question.
Our universities are in bad shape. It is up to the most gifted among us to return,
after the necessary advanced education abroad, and make a beginning with the job of
improving standards in our particular subjects. If the best choose to stay out of the
country, this important task will be l~ft to the mediocre remaining. there will be no
improvement in the quality of education, and the youngsters of tomorrow will get n& better

