-4_
a deal at our universities and institutes of technology than tho~e of today. Returning and
taking on the difficult problem of introducing quality into education and training at the
higher levels. is in fact a debt of gratitude owed the country.
In the lIT's. India has for its part given. in spite of its poverty. the best it could,
asking very low fees from the students themselves and generously ehouldpring the huge costs
of running these places. Having paid virtually nothing for the privilege, students finishing
from these lIT's have doors open to them, which are finnly closed to the average Indian.
These institutes and their cost to the country can be justified only if the most intelligent
students they turn out are not forgetful of what they owe. and in turn give of themselves and
their gifts for the general toning up of higher education in the country. If they do no suah
thing. and. instead, remain on in the United States. what it amounts to is that this poor land
has given them virtually free a huge headstart it cannot give to most others. and the ultimate
beneficiaries are the United States, which has unly provided the finishing touches, and the
individuals themselves, who have used the generous headstart and the preferential treatment
given them in the fonmative stages for purely self-serving ends. Such a state of affairs should
not be.
I do realize however that one cannot generalize. A person staying on abroad after finishing
his formal higher study at the university of his choice, is not necessarily an ungrateful,
unethical individual. It sometimes happens that following an intense personal interest, a
person winds up a specialist in a branch of technology which has no relevance to India. He
would find no job-openings here. Sometimes an individual returning can find no place in any
institute or university because all faculty-positions happen at the time to be filled. Sometimes, having returned and joined up in one place or the other. he is virtually forced to resign
and go back abroad by the downright persecution unleashed on him by envious, petty-minded
superiors. Even a man in such a situation has hcwever the duty to ask himself what his education, up to the point to which this country took him, would have cost it. and, treatinq the
sum as a bank-loan, add on to it suitable interest and repay the amount to the land by using
it to help some underprivileged people here improve their lot in life. Action of this sort
would go a long way in reconciling one also to those who. without compelling reasons 01 the
sort I've just mentioned, stay on in the United States. If they did this much at least, they
would have repaid what the country spent on them.

***

Let me end this session where I began it, talking of reading. Every time I enter a
large library I am filled with a sense of unease: so many books, and I've read. and can read
in the time left to me, no more than a vanishingly small fraction of them. One could go into
a state of panic over this. but glory be to Allah for the balance and perspective provided by
comic versel To face the flood of print more or less unshaken I've found an excellent stabilizer
For'years a secret shame disturbed my peace:
'
I'd not read Eliot, Auden, and Macniece:
But now another thought fills me with hope:
Nei ther had Shakespeare. Mil ton, and Pope.

***

LOKUSFOKUS
BY
ENVY

It was an Anti-Disaster (cyclone, floods etc.) management day at lIT. The insti~utiona­
lised Jeremiahs of India were sitting. with 'doom' in their lips and a smile on their faces
while their eyes had none of that awed expectancy t.hat could be termed ante-diluvian. It wae
indeed an elite society: the poised lAS community, the exquisitely erect IPSes, a sprinklinq
of environmental scientists and managementexperts and an omniscient foreigner whose words
safely rolled off into the note book that the other man carried with him. One was dying to see
a quiver of apprehension but there was none. It was just a convocation of the different birds
of paradise that chose to perch on the earth for a little while •

•••

Squalor at a distance certainly has its charms: poverty in particular is a delightful
topic for cerebration and theorization. It was pot surprising that an eminent Economics
expert arrived at the scene of lecture in a perfectly smooth car and chose to expatiate on hie
pet theories while an equally leisurely audience listened to him with rapt attention. One was
ed to think that it was not poverty but an appreciation of the divergent theories of poverty
Ih
t at was of consequence.

***

Society at any time consists of a number of confusing ingredients. For instance a ~ingle
movement called 'Antidisestablishmentarianism' would have created unprecedented hete;ogeneit
in the European society of those times. There were, of course, the proponents and exponent y
of t.he two movements, viz., 'Antidisestablishmentarianism' (A.D .E) and 'Di6establiahmenta~
rianiem' (D.E) and this already accounts for four classes. One should also reckon with the
existeIlce of the opponents of each movement- while thi t k
'
s a es care of the more radical type,

