~---,-

"LIFE IS SHORT. MAKE IT EXCITING"

Ex..clAA.AI,V.I.. AN IN TERVIEW WITH Dr. P. M.BHARGAVA

Dr. P.M. Bhargava, Director of the Regional Research Laboratory at Hyde-rabad "had come to our Instit~te to oive a talk on 'Recent Excitement in Biology' • It was one
of the most brilliant and popular lectures in an extramural series.Dr. Bharqava is one
of the top scientists working in our country today and is the most cited Indian Scientist
after Bhaba .On behalf of CAMPASTlMES we mot him later tlaat eveninq. He was very forthcoming and talked with us cheerfully for t,.;/o and a half hours .We give below. extracts
from our chat.
CAMPASTIMES - When did you first develop
your interest in Science ?
Dr. Bhargava - Oh, I developed my
interest since I was very small. a child
because I was simply interested in knowing things.And I think all children
are born scientists because theywant
to know things, ask questions ,hear answers -and science is nothing but questions asked and questions answered.
C- How did you oet your education in
science1
m - I did my high school in pure
science. I was 12 when I passed my
high school exam. -3years younger than
everyone else in my class. I did my Bsc.
in science - Maths,Physics and Chemistry.
My family wanted me to do my Msc. in
Mathematics and become an actuary .But
th~ teaching of mathematics is so dull,
or was so dull in my Bsc.as to make it
utterly uninteresting to me. In fact my
understanding of Mathematics came only
twenty years later, when I started reading set theory all by myself.lthen joined Mac. in Physice- Iliked Physics because it was so concept oriented. But the
teaching of Physics was even worse at
the University. If I had to memorise every thing, I thought to myself, I might
as well do Chemistry.So 1 changed to
Chemistry and ended up doing my Msc. in
it.
C - And then?
B- 1 did reasonably well. 1 invented
a Chemical reaction that was named
after me. 1 was 21 when I did my PhD.
But 1 found Chemistry very dull-it
just wasn't interesting an~ I decided
that I must go back either to physics
or biology. which are two areas I've
really liked.So I looked for an
opportunity and it first came my
wily in Biology.
C: How did you switch over?
B - It was clear that I could not do i t
here. So I applied for a post-doctoral
fellowship outside our country. I was
very excited when I got an offer from
John Hardleberger. However I decided
to be honest and wrote to him saying
that I'd never done Biology in my ljfe
H~ replied that it was not important
wlipther I kTl~w anythinq but what was
important waswnether r had the ability
to learn and the desire to learn.

After that I have never looked back
I grew up with the whole BiOlogical revolution. Mo-:dern BioloQY was just beginning. I was exposed to just about
the most famous men in the world. So I
had the opprtunity of getting my doubts
sorted out by some of the most brilliant
men of this century.
C- Isn't our system of science teaching,
ra ther rigid ?
B- I think it is absolutely riqid. What
we don't understand, is that knowledge
cannot be compartmentalised. If we do
so, it should be for convenience, but
that should not be the objective. You
see,mo_dern science is all problem
orfnted.
,question
oriented and if you are really interested in Science then what you wan't to
do is to learn everything that is nece
-ssary to answer the question. And today
it turns out that all interesting questions that are intellectually exciting
to answer them you must have a multiple

background. - at least multiple understanding. It is unimportant wether you
have a degreein them, what is important is that you should understand them.
C- You've been associated with many
biological discoveries - which one of
them do you feel is the most important?
B- Well, I was associated with the discovery of fluorourosii, which is one
of the most important cancer drugs
but that really wasn't my idea. - the
idea was somebody else's. There are a
lot of excitinq things goinq on in my
laboratory right now. As you may remember, last year we discovered the sources
of new protiens in seminal fluid. which
was written about in all papers. The
whole work on primary cell suspensions
statted in my lab and we have already
published the first 20 papers on it.
C- Do you find any difference in the
way research is handled in India and
other countries, say the US ?
B - There are many differ~nces. If I
were to pick out the most importan~
difference, it is tbat in the Us,
research is done by competent scientists
and in India it is done by incompetent
scientiSts. Of Course. there are exceptions.
C - What is the reason for this ?
B - Dh. the reason is very Simple.

