-7The reason is that university education
in India s confined to a very small
number of people. Education is the hEreditary confine of, in my estimate,
only 12 to 20 million people who go
upto university while out of the remaining 640 million only about 10,000
are added to this group. So the result is that a lot of those who should
be in a university are not there,
and a lot of those who are there would
never be there to compete with those
640 million people. Now you and I
have competed with only 20 million
people and not with the remaining
640 million. who in the first place
don't go to school, and if they do,
drop out at class three and then at
class five. The result is that a
scientific and technological manpower
of about 1.5 milliom is derived from
a takeoff population of about 12 to
20 million and this rate is the higest
in the world. i t is roughly 10 -12
times as high as in the USA or the USSR.
therefore, you eave this tremendous
mediocrity. In my estimate. out of
every scientists only three should
be there.
When we interview students for
Ph. D , we are unable to take more
than 2 out of every hundred. But all
those people we eeject. go elsewhere
and get their Ph.D and are now available in the market. Then what happens
is what I call the dilution iaw. If
you have 10 good people by themselves
and they do 'x' amount of work. in
quality and quantity, then if you take
10 good people and 90 bad ones, their
totel output becomes 'x/IO' because
the ninety people not only do nothing
but prevent the excellence of the 10
people from being used.
C- Don't you find that there is a
ruthlessness in the way scientists work,
especiallY abroad ?
B - In a sense what you say is true.
Science has also become very professional. in that there is a lot of
money in it. Scientists are now one
of the most prestigious groups.They
travel a lot, do what they like.There
are enormous jealousies. intrigues.
But all said and done ,Science is still
the most objective today.
C - As a scientist. you critically analyse every aspect of nature. Do~~n't
i t lead to a loss of appreciation of
some basic human sentiments ?
B - Oh no, it is just the oppesite.
If you look at the Scientists of
today, they eave a great regard
for human values. There is a correlation between a man's excellence as
a scientist and hio social concern.
Everyone of the great Scientists of
today, has exhibited his social commi tment. I l is a genuineconcern. not

that of a politician or businessman, which is
pseudo. A good Scientist has a penceant for
truth and objectivity.
C - Could you tell us something about the
great Scientists whom you know well ?
B - Well, The two Scientists who have affected
me the most are Francis Crick and Jacques Monod.
I know them very well. and they have in their
way influenced me more than anyone else.Crick
was qualified as a Physicist and Monod in
T•• ' dicine and both won the Nobel Prize in
Physiology, separately of course. They are two of
the most brilliant men this century has producei
and this everyone accepts. I found talking to them
extrerre ly stimulating. Thei' are both extremely
difficult men to get along with.
C- As you go deeper into Science. do you feel the
existence of a Supernatural being controlling
all existence?
B - Absolutely not. In fact as I go deeper into
Science I am more convinved of the opposite.
C- But how is i t that you perceive order everywhere?
B-1 don't. I see lot of disorder. As I mention. ,
living systems follow the second law of thermodynamics. We are qoing into further disorder.
C - But as you yourself had said, nature's
processes are almost impossible to duplicate.
They are done so beautifully. There must be some
sort of life force in them. Isn't there sornethinq supernatural about this. ?
B - Absolutely not. It is true that there are
some questions to which Science Bas not yet
given an answer. As of today. the only question
to which Scientists have no answer is' what
happened in the first few seconds of the oriqin
of the Universe. what was before that. Beyond
that we have reasonably good answers. to every
other question. If you believe in God. then all
that you have to say, is that the ~nly time God
was active was in those first few seconds. After
that he died. After that he had no control as
everything happened according to natural laws.
e - Is i t possible to reconcile a belief in God
with the Scientific mind. ?
B - Absolutely not. Absolutely impossible.
C - So one cannot be a good Scientist and
a believer?
B - It is just not possible and is borne
out by the fact that over 98% of the world~
top scientists including Nobel Prize winners
after 1950, because this confrontation has become direct only since then, are either
agnostics er atheists. A hundred years aqo, a man
could be a true Scientist and a believer.
because then 8cience did not have the answers
to many questions. But not now.
C - In India, isn't there a high proportion
of Scientists who are believers ?
B - Therefore the question you should ask is
are they really Scientists . My amswer is 'NO'.
They merely have a science degree.And having a
Science degree doesn't make you a Scientist.
Their contributions to Science are also very
trivial. Occasionally you find one or two
persons who have done very good work in
Science and who are believers.But those,
you know. are merely exceptions to the rule.

