-11FOURTH YEAR MOVE: If your opponent has managed to survive in spite of' AD' blocks and
bottlenecks. you are not efficient.
Now you better play the game in four dimensions (X,Y,Z,t). You can and should dlwaya
reply "Not today, come on next foionday" •
FINAL YEAR MOVE: The final years we hear, are outwitting us. It is rumoured that they
have even converted some team members. They, we are told, have made some of us sympathetic
to their cause.
AU'I'lJOR 'S NOTE: The final year move was censored in the ADD block to keep up the morale
of the team.
All these extracts are from the instructior. manual.
Four of tbe 'fourth levellers' were brought to trial recently for co-oper~in9 with
the students. The 'gang of four' was sentenced by a people's court to serve a term of
three years in the third level.

----'=I_~_....J

*********

A [MAMMOTH] FL6VY IN THE OINTMENT
SWAMY

Since ages, elepnants. like library tickets have been put to much misuse. In ancient
times, they were drafted into the army and served as a~oured carriers while in the present
times they are recruited in the lumber trade. Apart from lugging timber around, elephants
have also been pressed into ser-vice in circuses to give children their money's worth.
But an analysis of man's relationship with this hulk of an animal has been neglected
for long. Perhaps one dpes not find the relationship either inspiring or fascinatinq.
However, a closer look at this situation reveals a very interesting case study for the
amateur psychologist.
Considering the success of these creatures in the afore-mentioned professions some
people have come up with the question'why not mastadons for modelling?' All those who
have seen the imitation elephants at G.e. tend to sympathise with such people. This is a
sympathy born out of a sense of horripilation.
Anybody who has had one book at these twin structures has a first-band experience of
what disgust means. It is a cold reminder to us that life is not always a bed of roses.
EVen from the point of view of elephants. I imagine, they would be feeling what in human
terms is referred to as 'righteous indignation'.
Exploiting the animal for physical labour, forcing i t to perform undignifi~ antics,
and parading it around the streets with a sadistic uncouth lout riding on its back and
a throng of urchins shrieking and crowding around is, in itself deplorable, but placinq
grotesque imitations of these creatures at the intersections of roads is the ultUnate insult.
The first question that arises in the mind is 'why an elephant'? In fact ." why two
elephants? why not a brontosaur? a duck-billed platypus? a lizard? or an orange goldfish?
Let us imagine that the man who built these creatures has had a bad deal in life. His
rpsentment is turned against life. What does he do next? He makes a COUPlp of horrendous
creatures with their hindquarters turned towards one another and sits back with a smug
feeling of just vengeance. What effect does this product on the innocent l"4pectator?
Anythinq ranainq from mild distaste to paranoid psycoosis.
The more lucky among those who have the misfortune of viewinq this dbomination suffer
nothing worse than a sppll of blues for a day or so. Other people of a more sensitive
nature may turn hysteri ('a1 or suffer a nervous breakdown on being assailed by t.he sight
of these grey monsters.
It would not be improper to speculate whether there is some connection between the
occurance of traffic accident8 at this centre and the presence of thes~ monumental mammals.
It is quite possible that motolists and riders of two Wheelers, when surprised by the
sight of th~8e creatures for the first time may go into a state of shack and shudder all
over, ther~by losing control.

