-12Dismissing the theory of sadism on the part of the architect as a little far-fetched,
an alternative possibility is that the artist was sincerely attemptinq some sort of
symbolism. Perhaps the sculptor imagined that the two elephants symbolised the spirit
of I.I.T.
In such a case one is far from impressed by the artist's imagination let alone
his skill. The elephants would have been symbolic of I.I.T. if at least they had been
painted white.
And so one can go on and on. Inevitably. one has to give up all attempts. to find
reasons at some juncture. Certain things in life. like God's ways. are in.cruteble.

*.*****

ON ETYMOLOGY
BY

RANJIT PADMANABHAN
It is well known that English is the langugage which has borrowed freely from other
languages in the course of its development. This parasitic feature. however. gave English
the distinction of being the most interesting language etymoloaically. Besides. a lot of
words were also coined based on historical occurrences. To illustrate these points. a few
common ~ords and some not-so-common phrases are enuwerated below, with their derivations.
We begin with the word BILLINGSGATE which can be traced baCK to the site of an old
passage through that part of the city wall that protected London on the river side. Billinqsgate has been the site of a fish market for many centuries and itsporters and vendors were
famous for their foul and abusive lanquaqe at least three hundred years ago. As a result,
the word billingsgate has come to mean coarse. vulgar language laced liberally with
obscenities.
Our next word takes us back to the old days of constant travel between Enqland and
India by steamship. Passengers travelling by the P. & o. (Peninsula and oriental) liner
would, at some cost. book their return passage with the arrangement "Port outward Starboard
Homeward", thus avoiding the south facing or sunny side of the vessel when crossing the
Indian Ocean. Passages were booked P.O.S.H. accordingly, and POSH soom came to be applied
to first class passengers who could afford this luxury, and more recently to mean grand
or "swell".
A HAM ACTOR refers t9 an actor who overa~ts. The term ultimately derives probably
from the fact that in the 19th cenitury.1- theatrical make-up was removed with the fat of ham
chops and came into use through a combination of facts in theatrical history. Hamish
McCulloqh (1835 - 85) used to tour Illinois with his own troupe. himself beinq familiarly
known as Ham and ~1s troupe as Ham's actors. In the most popular period of American
minstelsy, there was a song "The Hamfat Man", about an inept actor. Such facts, together
with the similarity of the word amateur and the tradition that down-at-heel actors had
acted Hamlet in better days, apparently accounted for the expression. Hamlet himself,
in the speech to the players, describes the essence of ham acting - "to saw the air too
much with your hand", to tltear a passion to tatters", a'1d to "strut and bellow". Hamlet,
therefore, may be the source of the expression. which may then have an even longer history.
The Augean Stables were the stables of Augeas, the mythological kinq of Elis. in
Greece. In these stables he had kept three thousand oxen and they had not been cleansed
for thirty years. One of the labours of Hercules was to cleanse th~ and he did so in
style by causing two rivers to run throu~h them. Hence the phrase to CLEAN THE AUGEAN
STABLES refers to the cleaning away of an accumulated mass of corruption, be it moral,
religious, physical or legal.
Procrustes, again in Greek legend, was a robber of Attica, who placed all who fell
into his hands upon an iron bed. If they were longer than the bed, he cut off the redundant
part. if shorter, he stretched them till they fitted it. Fortunately. he was slain by the
Greek hero Theseus. Con~equently. any attempt to reduce men to one standard. one way of
thinking, or one way of acting. is called placing them on PROCRUSTES' BED.
Once again a word of Greek extract. ESOTERIC refers to those within as opposed to
exoteric, those without. The term originated with Pythagoras, who stood behind a curtain
When he gave his lectures. Those who were allowed to attend his lectures, but not to see
his face, he called his exoteric disciples, but those who were allowed to enter his veil.
his esoterics. Aristotle adopted the same terms; those who attended his evenino lectures.
which were of a popular character, he called his exoterics: and those who attended his
more abstruse morning lectures his esoterics.

