-13move on to ancient Rome for the next word. CONTEMPLATE. which means to m~(iitntp or
reflect upon; to consider attentively. The word takes us back to the ancient Roman Auours.
for th~ templum (whence our temple) was that part of the heavens which he wishpd to (·onsult.
Itavinq mentally divided it into two parts from top to bottom. he watched to see wha t
would occur; and this watching of the templum was called contemplatinq.
w~

Our final phrase is PISO'S JUSTICE which refers to something verbally right but morally
wrong. ~eneca tplls us that Piso condemned a man to death on circumstantial eviopnce for
murder: but when the suspect was at the place of execution. the man supposed to have b~en
murdered appeared. The centurion sent the prisoner to Piso, and explained the case to him;
whereupon Piso condemned all three to death. Th~ condemned man was executed because
sentence of death had been passed upon him. the ;en~urion because he had disobeyed orders,
and the man supposed to have been murdered because he had been the cause of death to two
innocent men.

• •••••

8llf"

BUCKET '5 SPORTFOLlO,q
DID YOU FNOW THAT

•
•

•

•

•

"

*

Majid Khan (the Pakistani test cricketer) m~~e his debut 1n l~64 as an opening bowler.
A susp~ct bowling action ended his rareer as an opening bowler.
At this year's inter~state athletics meet (beld in February at Hissar). the men's
110 m. hurdles was re-run because the distance between the 8th and the 9th hurdJe!;\
was more than the stipulated 9.1 m.
At the 1947 all-England Badminton championships. India's Prakash Nath reached the
men's singles final. but lost to Coney Jepson of Sweden. Two Indians. Devinder Mohan
and Prakash Nath created a sensation by reaching the qUarter-finals of the sinqles
event. Since they were pitted against each other. they decided to spin the coin
as they thought it unwise to play against each other. Prakash Nath won the toss and
thus entered the semi-final. In the men's doubles (in the same year) Prakash Nath
and Devinder Mohan reached tpe semi-finals where they lost to a Danish pair.
Denis Compton, the Enalish test player. figues in a double-century partnership in the
Ranji Trophy tournament. Playing for Holkar against Bombay in 1944 - 45, he added
209 runs for the third wicket with Mushtaq Ali.
REHANA is the muslim name of Muhammad Ali's wife, Veronica. Ali divorced his second
wife Belinda (Khali1a was her muslim name) in 1967.
The late Nawab of Pataudi (Iftikhar Ali Pataudi) was one of the sixteen players chosen
for India's hockey team for the Amsterdam Olympics (1928). He could not make the trip.
Canada's Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Xrudeau is a brown belt in judo. Trudeau goes
skin-divinq and skiing whenever he can get away from affairs of the state.
The CALCUTTA CUP is the famous international ruqby trophy competed for annually by
England and Scotland. The trophy, of Indian design, was made from melted down silver
rupees. the aocumulated funds of the Calcutta Rugby Football Club when it was disbanded in 1978 because of lack of fixtures. It was presented to the Rugby Union
that year and was first Competed for in 1979.
Britain's former conservative Prime Minister Edward Heath, captained his country's
yachtinq team in defence of the Admiral's C~, in August 1979. A total of nineteen
nations challenged the cup.

••••••

CONVOCATION'
80
BY
G.SHARATH CHANDRA

The rains had been batterinq the city for several weeks before the Convocation. As
the day approached, they showed no signs of abating and it was aP.rrehend~d that rain
would mar the occasion. Alternative arrangements were made to have the Convocation
at CLT if this inclemency persisted on 22nd August as well. The day dawned and the sun
burst out in full brilliance. As the afternoon wore on, it became relievingly apparent
that the XVII Convocation would be held at the OAT after all.
The Convocation is one of our most singular events. Here is fulfilment. solemnity.
hope, gaiety and above all a rpsurrection of faith in achievement. The occasion is managed
with all these sentiments minqling harmoniously that one comes away with a sense of satisfaction, a fulfilment similar to that after having witnessed a true work of beauty.

