-14Curiously we have a knack of doing only those things very well to which outsiders are
witness.
The sun, partly eclipsed by light clouds, cast a mild golden light on OAT. The
faculty in their gowns having assumed their seats on the stage and the graduands to their
left. the occasion began reasonbly on time. The seats to the right of the stage were
labelled 'GRADUATES', the graduands having to pass through the stage to get there. It
was heartwarming to see this loyalty to tradition in a place where sensible sentiments
have been discomfited in the name of informality.
As the graduands strode up to receive their degrees, I wondered if most of us were
cognisant of the process to which they had consiqned themselves and which had tortuously
borne them towards their objective. The periodicals and exams they must have faced with
palpitating tension, the agonising preparation with the inability to think beyond the
morrow, the racking frustrations, fleeting moments of triumph and joy and always a gnawina
fear of doing nothing. Is the objective worth all this? I did not ask myself this as the
Sight of achievement was edifying and awe inspiring enough to snuff out any perversity.
Despite their developed cynicism. the graduands seemed to be fully aware of the honour
(no doubt their due) of which they were partaking. Each of them walked carefully and
consciously across the stage to receive their degree, measuredly executing the required
bows. Several of them were extremely self-conscious-as they ~arked on the left side
of the stage they mentally marked off the points where they had to bow. They could be
seen concentrating on the ground a little ahead of themselves apparently counting the
number of steps to go before their next bow.
The Chief Guest gav e an impressive - sounding speech on the development of science
and technology and its attendant complications. How the social structure and concern for
humanity must be preserved in the wake of scientific growth. But then we hear so many
people calkingthe same thing and yet doing nothing about it that we have to suspect !
the sincerity of all of them.
There was high tea on the Guest House lawns for the fresh graduates, faculty and
invitees but a number of gatecrashers finished off grub meant for others. The skies.
which had allowed the Convocation safe passage, sent down a brief but steady downpour
and pushed back Manju Bhargavi's dance at OAT by an hour. Miss Bhargavi, having achieved
notoriety through 'Sankarabaranam' , naturally attracted a large crowd. Never was OAT so
full and never probably will it be again. Not a bit of the galleries could be seen as
this human covering completely engulfed them. Uninhibited by this. Miss Bhargavi turned
in a classic performance e~cellently supported by Smt. Varalakshmi, the vocalist.

It******

BITTE LISTENEN
SIE
BY
N.ARUNACHALAM

••

fiI"'JUST A MINUTE. BUCKET

Here in the campus exists a golden
1. WhE::!re were the XII (1940) and the XIII
opportunity that should be grabbed with
(1944) Olympics scheduled to be held?
both hands. The German Language Tape
2. This ye~r, Evonne Goolagong - Cawley
Recorder Centre (HSB 348) is open between
became the second mother to win the women's
9 and 11 A.M. and 2 and 7 P.M. on week
singles title at Wimbledon. Who was the first?
days and between 8.30 A.M. and 12.00 Noon
3. Who is the fi rst black boxer to win the
on Saturdays and Sundays (other timinqs
world heavy weight title?
are also possible by appointment) for staff
4. What are the three positions in free rifle
and students interested in listening. in a
shooting?
peaceful and air conditioned atmosphere, to
5. Who became the first Ceylonese to win an
German Language tapes. including simple
Olympic athletics medal?
teaching material for beginners (Familie
Bautnann Radio series. German tauaht thrdugh
.,..,..,.
English - you can start from scratch) and
·saweD 8~61 aq~ ul
also for advanced students. Besides the
~aAtlS satP~nq w OOv aq~
German Language material are also available
uo~ oq~ 'uOtAa~ 10 a~lqM ue~una
·s
a few s~ts of French, Russian and Advanced
·9uo~d pue bUTT99U~ '6ulPu2~S
·t
Enqlish 'Linguaphone' records. There are
·uosuqo!' J(,Jt!!' ·t
seven tape-recorders and a record-player and
·v16T ul s~aqw2q~
a supervisor to help you select the tapes
-~~a~~-selbnoa e9q~oAoa
and handle the tape-recorders. Also available
• ATaAT:Joads9~
is a mini-library. from where you can borrow
T~uTsT9H pue OA~O~ ~V
elem~ntary German books and magazines. once
you have bequn to understand the language.
:s~a~suv
So come and help yourselvesl

·z

