-17-

NOT A MERE TV GAZER, PLEASE I
- Envy and Swamy
It sounds undemocratic that just one of the hostel inmates ha!'l the privilege of watching
the 'Idiot box' in his room while others scramble their way thro' to watch the same in the
TV room.
This is just the case in Cauvery Hostel: we hi'lrqpd into room No .140 to inVf~stiqate
this evidenc~ of injustice during one of those rainy, squally nights.
Mr. G. Kumar is doinq his M.S. in TV Engg. ann thprp was an f>nchantina sjmplicity in
the way in which he discussed the details of his "'ark. His M.S. project is mainly concerned
with making a TV with additional sound cnanneJs 50 that the same programme can be transmitted
to the viewer in different languages. This. I'1r. Kumar points out, is quite important for a
complex society beset with communication problems. Incidentally, this was onf> of the exhibits
in the 'Open House' and thouqh he wants to introduce a few additional facilities in the TV
set, he feel~ that the time spent in procuring ~Ie necessary accessories will be so large
that he has to be content with making just a few modifications. He is also of the opinion
that the electrical lab facilities for the UGs are far from satisfactory.
Mr. Kumar is more enthusiast ... c about tbe TV he has made in his room dnd for him it ie
quite a creative hubby. The cost of his TV has roughly worked up to Rs.2,500 and this does
not include the external speaker meant for better sound quality. He feels that it is
unfortunate that we don't have the knowhow to manufacture picture tubes in India and unless
this is done, 'IV will certainly be beyond the canmon men's reach. He says that colour TV
in India will be almost out of the reckoninq, since the cost inVOlved in making the colour
tube is highly prohibitive and intricate quality control measures are needed. On a personal
level, he is planning to havli' an ultrasonic remote control device for 'IV contrast,fine
tuning etc.
Mr. Kumar, an engineering graduate from G.e.T. Coimbatore,has not looked back since
he stumbled on the task of setting right a defunct transistor as a high school lad. He hopes
to be able to make a mark in TV industry in t.h~ years to come and is optimistic that his
innovative designs will help reduce the cost of the TV box, which presently. is the
prerogative of only the elite to own.

10(70

liT

Published By:

Dr. V. Radhakrishnan

Produced by. the Rota printinQ facility at lIT Central Library.
Editors:

G. Sharath Chandra

and

R. Srinivasan

Editorial Board: N. Venkatasubramaniam
Balachandran
Chandramouli

Swami nathan
Sri Kwnar
Joseph Murray

Cover design by Rabin Monda!
Note: Part of the typing of the original was done by Sri Kumar (Fungus)

