II T Madras, Summer 1973

Vol. XI, No.4

EDITORIAL
Look at this ,
Believe It or not, this IS your magazme Let
me tell you more about this newspaper which
IS shpped unobserved under your door four
t1Illes a year-ltke It or not You pay for It
much less than what It costs the Institute to
run It The collectIOn from the hostels would
only bear one-third of the bill the press sends
the ad block. Surplus value here for you.
Many people have said that Campasttmes
should project the Image of the student commUnity m lIT and sometimes also act as a
hnk between the Secretanes and the general
student body TIllS wIll not work for three
-reasons

(I) The frequency of pubhcat10n of
Campasilmes Isagamst It as also the Irregulanty
• (3) ~ Secretanes for the most par: have

~iod-Ji:t[?"Pr().~-"

r'...

--

.......~(,""t..,("I'

(3) lOU do not take Campasumes senously

enough, and even If you did read through
something that mterested you, you do not
follow It up With any sort of actlOn
It IS obvIOUS that no really faithful reproductIOn of the current IITlan Scene IS possible
through the efforts of the Edttor and the
EditOrial Board alone There are too many
and totally dIfferent views and Ideas prevalent
in the mnumerable sectIOns of the student
commumty, wluch roughly go class-'Hse,
year-wise, hostel-WIse and III the Sportmg
Scene, It IS teaIU-Wlse Also, the editOrial
IS the only piece which puts forth any opmlOns
and at times Ideas, the colr.unns and artlcles
bemg of a more general nature, do to a great
extent -project the present state of mmd of the
!ITlan But the complamt remams. There
are few articles the editor can get hold of and
he cannot be choos.y now Therefore, when
one shears Campastlmes of Its fnlls, It IS left
only With the edltonal, Bobo's Column,
Maheshs bit, the gas from George John and
the odd carIcature from Sudlp Ghatak Of
course Patel keeps hIS Sportsfolto The rest
of the paper IS filled With blts, diverts, the contents box and of course the Short poems which
the edItor keeps by hiS Side for filltng up the
mevltable gaps
The colo"al problem IS the dearth of good
arttdv; and I am not too eute ot the qlll\,ty of
aIL,,,.,,,, p ..opllO ,uuglH '"om... Up Wll..U Ii 1 Wt:l1t
solICItIng In earnest. It IS qUIte embarrassmg.

It also surprised me m the begm nmg-the
guy who wnte IS Just not the guy you talk to .
not the guy you know And there are peopl~
who ask me why I accept unreadable stuff
Why? Well here's why. I want to keep
CamplIJtzmi!s gomg In the hope that someday
people would reahse, and start wntlng and they

would not have a problem seemg It In pnnt.
Campastlmes would be there It would not
have to be dug out from the graves Camjastrmes IS Ifl a ~tage noW, where It seems to be
~ervmg a future cause A cause which you
will somebody.find and when you have found
that, you would be thankful Campastltfres was
arollnd
The frequency WIth whIch Campastllnes
goes to press IS depcpdant only upon how fast
II1i1tenal collects between Issues and With the
problem of the sort and magl1ltude we have tn
lIT, It IS good gOIng If four Issues are brought
out In a year There IS of course the POSSIblhty ot tnmmmg down the s~e, thus gettmg
CampastImes, which would be more frequent
and more regular. But the Increase In fre~
quency of Campastlmes per se IS n~ warranted
under the present Circumstances, In \ ICW of
the fact that Campasttmes does not W.ort to
be a vendor of hot news Therefore It
take Its time collecting the nece~sary matenal
and come out as a substantlallookmg nlllnber,
which would cut down operating costs as well
as spare the editor tnps to the press at the rate
of five per Issue ThiS last bit can eaSI\y be
aVOided If we had a press of our own m the
campus, as m Kharagpur or Bombay
I cannot see how Campastnnes cou.ld be of
help to any of the Secretanes, actmg a. a lmk
WIth the sruden' body And even if they did
write (past e:qS'ertence makes 1n e believe they
wlil not), the,,\would I<et awaj With It astly
Gymkhana CounCil Meeting or'evekd. ':"-:""'L-:"
Body MeetIng, IS anybody's guess
Therefore, the moral of It all IS thiS Tou
have to wnte And you have to find a cause
for Campastlmi!s It IS your magazme and
you have everythmg to do With what shape It
takes, what course It follows You have to set
the goal and work for It-MAKE CAMPASTIMES YOUR THING

can

r

30 P.

Prof.. R. K. GUPTA
After tlu:ee years of holdmg the key uffice
of the PreSident, Institute Gymkhana
Prof Gupta retires thIS year It would not
be false If we said that nobody has dOll(, so
much to the students, to the G} mkhana as
Prof Gupta durmg hIS tenure, IncludIng the
two resoundmg 'Ictones at Madras and KGP
where the last two meets were held Tile
great success we hav<- wltnL'''Ld m Basketball
Cncket, Football, Hockey etc, bear "ltnlS~
to the relentless work of one man-Prof
Gu.pta. We hope that Prof Gupta Will continue to be the guulmg splnt to all us students
even III the future Prof N V. C. Swamy, we
are sure WIll take on hIS lob as Prof G\lpt~'s
successor With great .leal, as we have known
him to do m other fields This elCtremely
well-read person (take any book from the
hterature sectIOn In the hbrary and you Will
see that Prof N V C S"am), has beaten you
t'"\ It). We are sure Will get the) fUllest co~
<l}leratlon from the studLnts and th~ '''cretanes

ANANTH SESHADRI.

7ar¢w¢1l
Or. A. RAMACHANDRAN
Dr A Ramachandran, our DIrector, has
been appOinted, Secretary to the Dept of
SCience and technology, GOI He relmqUlshes hiS post as Director of thiS Institute
after years of service, dunng whIch we
witnessed numerous changes for
the
better - the mtroductlOn of the present
penodlcal system, to name one. The
Computer Centre commg up In our midst
must have been bred under hiS careful superVISion and It IS a pity that he Will not be a~tlvely
Involved at the Inaugural of thIS landmark m
the history of IlT Madras The most rem'lrbbl .. fact of course IS that liT Madras IS
the ""Iv liT which h'l~ not beln th<- SCtn<- ot
mCldentll ot any sort el.tb.e.t m tb.e lurm ut an.
agitation by the students or trouble from the
~cademlc or adrmntstratIve staff. Abk ad:.
mmlstrator that he IS, he was also adept at
wmnmg peopk over to hIS standpomt as the
Gymkhana members of recent years must have
noticed HIS bnllmnt techlllcal mmd coupled
With hiS admlfll~tratlve ~ktlls can only bnng
hIm success In any of hiS ventures.

Campastlmes learns with pleasure that the
InstItute has appomted the follOWing four
Deans as part of the IfNltahzlng of the work
of the Institute:
I.

Prof. R. G. Narayanllmurthi.
Dean of Industnal LU)lSon.

z. Dr. P. Veokata Rao,
Dean of AcademIC AffaIrS.
Prof. R. K. Gupta,

Dean of Students' AffGlrs.
4. Dr. K. A. V. Pandalai,
Dean of Admlnutratron.

