(Summer 1973

CAMPASTIMES

2

-----------------------------------------

A

s
T
A
T

I
N
E
Rodin and the Thinker
(Made ngld by these Wlreientlllg stony hds)
Lles my only express lon, and belllg fixed, It bills
Me to be thoughtsome forever, my misfortune.
And there must be substance III the hand
There cannot be an Isolated pair of tools
That can perform those tender acrobatics
Of the wnst and finger, eye and ear, and more:
The angehc work-shop of a sculptor-mllld
'Vhet"C sp'lce, In condensmg from the genn
Of I sl?ac[Uu;, Idea. \condenses further stili

That mystlc lllteractlOn grown
Between the Sculptor and the Stone.
To work at last, to work at last
ROilJn:
Upon thiS blessed day .
She has taken bag and baggage,
She has gone away.
Thinker : WelI now, between thee and me alone, milord,
Smce the lady bless her s~~'\d
~~'f~x~u b~ ~d eno~ •• _~ __,,~ .•~nd.
Faith, tlus unmarble-hke restlessness of thi..1lr
Grates lIke \,ood upon my sluggard cells
Just so, the sparks from a stnkmg flmt
RIse bke a meteOric shower at OIght
When gentle fnctlon flows through clusel-Jaws
And bites With love mto the opaque skm of $tone
Makes harmony of stony flesh and smew
Were naught but craggy pits were massed before.
Thinker : But mercy, lord, you cannot leave me thus
Undressed, yet thtnklllg so madly, funously.
That all these passers~by may stop to see
How thiS thoughtful nude can always be
So engrossed 10 the problem of hiS nudity
(Mayhaps a httle ndlcule Will unhmge the guy)
And let me assure thee, su, god failed to make
Bnght, gifted, marvel-bramed creatures like thee
Outlast the march of time to claIm eternity
Because, Sirrah, If he had given such a lease
All these god-glfted ones, timeless as trees
Would freeze their faculties and tum to frohc
And then, you Sir, a hapless alcoholic
Would not have fashioned me from fOSSil-stone
But would have staggered on, wme-footed, all alone.
Rodin:
Now, now, young marble-man, relax, be calm
And look at thmgs and exercise your chann
So that the candid watcher may be made aware
Of nothmg but thy thoughtful do\\ nward stare
Come now, you surely Can bUIld up the power
To forget all about thy lack of extra co.cr
Yield, Yield, such ferOCity drives the hand
The hauuner Ilses, pauses, moves and taps
As though this mechamcal phase of art
Could b" thu, ~uh-dl\ ,d,,1 Intu Juk) ldg ...
\Vhu:h, mtegratt.d In tho: lapsl. of urn<Produce the ghttcr of a fine creation
Thinker: Lord, ha.e mercy OIl my stone
Rodin:
But, dash It all, you msensate lunlp of matter,
How ndlculous It IS to bother thy block-head
About such tnvalltles as outer gannents
For a Slhceous skm so bloody thick as tlune
When all you have to do I~ hold that pose
And behave Itke the rummatlve hulk of a man,
Who, caught red-handed m that dry pOSitIOn
Sc('m~ to execute the most chenshed of acts
The g.. nteel act of pressmg palm to chm
And brmgmg on that gla7ed fever m the eye
A~ though to straddlt. an unmeasured length of vacancy.
Thinker: But ~h.LP, fOllord, 1'\ tota11) be) ond my reach
Smcc you havc carved these thmlu.r-c)es that each
Is pcnn:mently broodmg on some object there
Uponlhe floor, and In Ihls open,low-cut slare

Rodin:

Roth,s:

SubllDlate your baser mstmcts, creature
'Vhen thy maker equIps thee to thmk, as such
You cannot be so spmeless as to quarrel
And fret and fume about such mane thmgs
As clothmg, sleep, ornaments and trappmgs
Now gather all thy forces, bend and thmk.
How now, noble SIr, my inoffenSive chatHr
Born of marble-mmd, so fusmg mmd and matter,
ReCOils from thy senSible ears like scattered chaff
May be the years of work, now movlllg on the graph
Of such an artisan as thou, ha, e played their part
And driven all thy Wits completely off the hYIng chart,
Leavmg behmd an Irntable ralsm of a sculptor
Take shape, take mood, take rollmg thunder-clap
Take shadow, exertion, peace and soberness
MIX all these wares and pour them gently down
Intc) the thlck, VISCOUS medIUm of the aIr
And subslstmg on thiS airy figurate soup
The fingers wrap on chisel, hammer, time
And then time condenses as man and marble
Mate m the first few outer chips that stream
In whlte~hot clouds, flurry of stem attack
That IS but mdlcatlon of the shape to come.

Rodi" :

An nght, bust, my advancmg age does tell
In the qUickness of a temper or iJ. sulklng~spelJ
Or. here and there a touch of cymc spIce
'Vll.lch elderness decreees as good 8nd wise
For those who fam ,\ould like to be descnbed
As npe m age and abundantly wnnkled

Tlrirlkn :

Ripe In age, forsooth, my noble lord,
Thy) e'ln :Ire but pure dToplet~ in the wider scheme
Of nature and h<.r brood You forget me,
And hm\ my hard pedIgree of stone can be
Right from that moment when thy hand began
To besto\\ me 'Hth shape, an IInmortal span
Between one mspucd moment and forever more
So that those unseen CItizens In a distant time
May look and wonder, feel and thmk of so subhme
A pang of creation as must have been behllld
The dancmg faculty of a gemus of the mmd.
And once thiS chlPpmg-garne IS set to mOtIOn,
The true osmosIs of the master-deed begms
Night comes, days pass, the seasons float
Bu.1 never does thiS nameless partnership pause
To take heed of the tick of time and yeat'
'Vhen some Incomparable nectar of the gods
Has risen from the blankness of an empty heart
And urges man to pIt hiS gallant mmd on matter
Calling forth a musde-drallll1\g participation.
And to wrench from the uglmess of mlll<!ral

