CAMPASTIMES

c.e"T'R~l..­

Lfc:lVRe
'TltUTIlS

It-r

b"30

P.'"

'rll..... T!t
"v~~(."!5(.E

itT
flit:
Ir>lST~T~T~
(i..'1I"\~"I'1~

oFF~c:.E.

CAST (In order of appearance)
Raj Manghk
Snuth
Dame/
Joseph C Naronha
Goldstein
Sudlp Ghatak
Customer 1 alld III
N. V. KrIShna
A V. Maltreyan
Customer II
Ashok Santhanam
hel
Ami Gadl
Kotsclumreuther
pempelaTt \
PaulMarwah
Ranthl Dev
Krodewrl
Om Prakash
Fngate
Stage, Sets alld all That Vmod Shanbhag
Allan Santhyadev
MUStc
and
Valthlyahngam
J U DaVIds
DtrectWIl
Yogi
Ptlhliaty
Chandta
Satkumar

.ADout the Plays
The first one IS qUIet and subtle.
It IS about Goldstem, the craZily hwnane old
man who Sits m the middle of all those cIgarettes and chooses hIS customers. A big company wants to buy hIm out, they want to make
fum a lInk m theIr cham of tobaccomsts, but
Goldstem rejects even the hIghest offer. That
way, he manages to survive the onslaught of
wuformlty which he IS dady forced to expenence m the form of Mr Smith.
Mr Smith wears matchmg socks and IS also
ill possessIOn of a radIO licence
A deplorable case, says Goldstem I
There have been some very great Smiths,
says Mr Smith And at tunes he speaks m
rhymes
That IS why Goldstem sees fit to attack him
withFIJt
(And how IS tlus one a Goldstem-SpecIaI:
For to~et some Craven A
you've got to go to Paraguav)
Dame1 IS Just lookmg for an odd Job and
gets hooked III the process He stays and
falls for the mane charm of old Goldstem,
whose dog Abraham thus becomes the proud
owner of a dog-walker
So It all ends hke an old-Wives' -tale happdy.
Because an old man has made a stand against
society c\osmg m and because he's made It.
Makes you happy too, man (Only, don't
smoke)
The second one IS nOIsy and subtle
The nOise does not come from the train
these. two guys arc on, KrudewlI the engmeer,
Pempelfort the fireman It does not come
from the pamter, who wants so much to dIve
deep down under the old values. It does not
come from thiS landscape full of cows, whIch

•••

look hke ships and smell of butter and who
ruInmate and observe, Frigate, splck and
span, turnmg and tackmg before the wmd
(south-southeast, to be precise) So where
does the nOIse come from f It comes from
the laughter, man, the laugh these two easy
flders Will have once they reach Buffalo
There, streetiamps wdl he smashed and hreasts
wt11 be anotnted, shIrts Will be changed and
knee-caps \\ III be oiled, unless of course,
they go to bed early. Pempeliol t \" all for
gomg to bed early, but Krudewtl-bmKrudewtll-yes, Krudewtl. He IS all Pempelfort has Axel belongs to the landscape,
where he does hiS Job as a cowboy. In th.e
end, when Frigate (who IS an admiral m dISgUise, didn't we know It) ndes away across the
waves m a row-boat manned by Krudewtl and
Pempelfort, In search of Moby DIck 2pd some
far-away freedom, which earlrerbore the name
of Buffalo (see above) when r31lslckness turns
mto seaslckness and the scene gets kmd of
empty· then Axel stops wondermg and gives
It a try
So we have two useful edlfymg and plaUSible
stones tomght which tell the tales of ratlocmatlon and honor, which gwe you thiS lost
feelmg of how you always wanted to do your
own httle thmg hide behmd your cigarettes
or hIt the raIl to Buffalo Well, do It, man.

EOO=BVSTER
QuestIOn asked m a B Tech. Aero perIOdical:
How many degrees of freedom does an
aIrcraft have?
Answer
Forwald, backward, upward, downward, and SIdeward (left and TIght)
motIOn, but smce an aeroplane does not
fly backward, It has only five
GAS-II
Th ... mtLr-IIT I~ jll<;t over and our heroes (~)
havL LomL homL VictoriOUS All credit to
thLm , but, I womkr how many of you noticed
that little change that came over most of the
undLrgraduate hostels dUring the tune our
boys 0) were away.
If )OU were lU a wlUg havmg a noticeable
member of that C up and away at 4 30 P m.
ill Adldas' fratermty you would have felt
z thl11gs the day they left. One, the sudden
ab::.cnce of frUits (especlally those bIg green
plantams) that our boys (?) used to receive (and
dish out) m such lIberal quantities. It used
to make pretty good eatmg espeCially around
midnIght. When one sometImes gets that
IrreSistible urge to eat somethmg and a ransackmg the dmlUg-hall discovers that the only
thmg left over from dmner IS some rasam.

{Summer 1973
The second thmg would have been that for
the first time In a long while, you could stnde
boldly down the corndor without haVing a
sweat-soaked vest or shirt come flappmg down
all over you or haVing to hold your nose to
prevent the overpowering odour of a stockmg
that's protesting In Its own way of haVing been
used too regularly for the past fortnight and
not a dhabi In Sight.
The real trouble occurs when sometImes
someone deCides to strike up a conversation
(about the Schroeter or some such thing
genera!1y) while you are still engaged In navlgatl1lg sately through the paraphernalIa. The
smile you put on for hiS sake Inadevertently
makes you draw In a good lungful of that aIr
With the result that your smile transforms mlO
a scowl which gives him the ImpreSSIOn that
you are Just about ready to scoop hiS mternal
organs out With a trowel or somethmg ThiS
leads to complicated explanatlon~ all aTound
espeCially if It occurs when he IS explammg
some finer pomt of hiS particular ball-game.
ThiS busmess of leavmg the corrIdors lIttered IS an mteresung phenomenon If you have
the correct attItude (not to mention a blocked
nose) to It
Anyone With the shghtest mterest m human
behavIOur would find It worthwhde tracmg
and typmg the peckmg order that eXists With
that broad claSSIficatIOn of healthy outdoor
types.
ThiS IS easy If we start from the bottom
At the extreme edges of the ' up and away at
five III Adldas' fraternity are those members
who keep movmg III and around the edges of
mstltute teams They may be either dogged
final or prefinal years who haven't let the passage of the years weaken their resolve to finally
make It atleast thiS year IlltO the playmg Side
and stay there or else those younger lads who
are still on their way up. ThiS category can
generally be Identified by the fact that their
sole Jersey Will be hangmg from a Ime m the
corndor but folded ever so neatly. Therr
powerpomts grace the corndor floor With the
socks tucked away shyly mto them.
Tlus type Isn't very much of a nUisance as
they reserve therr Jerseys only for the really
big occasIOns (and of course to OAT on
Saturdays), so It doesn't really have much of a
chance of gettmg dirty so fast. On the next
rung of thIS fraternity come the none-toovaluabl... but none too expendable athletes
and such hke. There..i.ellAws form the bulk.
of the fraternityunder conslderatiOn-iheygenerally do acqutre more than I Jersey over
the years and some of them are even aware
of the advantages mvolved III dealing WIth the
dhobl
Then come the hard core which IS composed
of the big rndlspensable fellows rn the teams.
The fellows who are the most Important when
It comes to chasmg the Holy Grall aro1.Uld the
football field. (Remember the epitaph m the
last Issue? That was some eye-opener. I
mean, Imagme gtown-up guys getting so
worked up about a piece of plg-skm or IS It
Just ordmary cow-hide)
Now, as far as the corndor goes these fellows
form the bIggest nUisance for the SImple reason
they have so much to spread around rangmg
from skates to stockmgs and old tenniS balls.
The person who tnes to reason or even
convmce anyone belonging to the Adldas
fraternity that the aesthetIC beauty of the hostel
IS certamly not enhanced by abdomillal guards
and worn-out stockmgs faces a dlfficult and
sometimes even dangerous task
The only thmg to do under such circumstances IS to accept It gracefully Or, to move
out mto a. hostel where thiS kmd of corrtdor
ThiS pOSSlblhty
decoratIOns don't eXI"t
actually consists of z alternatives You can
either shift mto one of the P G Hostel or you
can move mto the Ladles' Hostel
The move lllto a P.G Hostel IS fraught
\\lth danger. Tm1gme gettIllg a room bordermg on the bali-badminton types (The}
are the champs, too, at the game)
The other alternative seems a httle better
but then perhaps your Warden might Just fall
to see the ImperatIVe necessity of your transfer
to the LadJeS' Hostel.
But I suppose, tIme IS movmg out even for
them. They took part m the Sports Day
march past thiS year (not to mention the poor
run, or was It to us) and I doubt If they are
gomg to stop at that. The nett result of course
bemg the settmg up of a Sarayu Chapter of
the Adldas fraternity Perhaps It already
eXists After aU, they did go to KGP for the
Meet
GEORGI! JOlIN.

