Summer 19731

ONE MAN: RAMESH PATEL
( In the planet we live m, life and death go
Every mln, known or
on contmually ..
unknown, IS capable of contnbutmg ..•. and
each w'ln's hfe can be touched, however
bnefly, by one wan-R'lmesh Pate!"
The year-195° The place-a remote
vJ.!Iage m the erstwhile State of Bombay. An
event which was to change the course of hIstory
took place. A ten-poWld bundle of flesh
opened Its eyes to the wonders of the world.
Throughout the years, thiS bundle retamed Its
shape but gathered moss, grass, wood and
what-have-you m aU the appropriate places
and finally landed up at the portals of thIS great
and finally up at the portals of thiS great
Institute Ramesh Patel had finally arnved.
From the tune Patel started to toddle, he
learnt the exquIslte art of cuttmg classes As
he narrated his childhood days to us, many
years later, we could conjure up vIsIons of a
roly-poly school-kid hltchmg a fide home from
school III a bullock-cart sO that by the tune he
reached home his mom would thmk her sonny
boy's been dropped by the school bus after
another dreary day m shool. Times haven't

CAMPASTIMES

Same class al> Jaya Bhadun, who, so the story

goes, feU head over heels for thiS phoreen
returned lad.
At thiS pomt, Wi! come to the second phase
of Patel's lIfe, and one lVlth whIch we are most
familIar Our first memOrIes of hun are of a
strangely clad stocky person With prehlstOflc
spectacles and a cockney accent As this
passed, Patel started adJustmg hrrnself to his
new environment. But he was never an extrovert and had great dIfficulty makmg fnends.
FtnaIly, a few of us took pity on him and from
that d"ly he neVer left us alone-:>omethmg
for which we shall never forgive ourselves.
Durmg the months and years that followed, he
began to show symptoms of a strange malady
that he suffered from He would completely
Withdraw mto a shell and move around hke a
zombie as though nothmg or no-one else
m1ttered No amount of coercion could
persuade Patel to return to hiS normal sane
self After such spells, however, he would
agam autom'lticaIly become normal as though
nothmg had happ~ned. In the begmnmg, no
one understood the cause of these ( fits' which
were as frequent as a wom'ln's perIOds, but
as Patel mltured he reached the state of menopause and hiS strange m'llady was convelliently

ch'lngcd Except that now hI" mode of transport .5 In kCLpmg w.th the Just agc-.l P 115

forgotten
H wmg descended from a generation of land.

mobIke, That IS when he deCIdes to attend
class Normally he does not go to class at all.
He believes that studies, like chanty, beglll at
home.
Though bom m India, Patel was bred and
buttered m one of the finest schools m
Manche~ter, England (back home, you know).
Durmg his stay there h" won the Junior swunmlllg championship and, 1 belteve, caused
many a f"male heart to f1l1tt(.[ at the Sight of
hIs manly chest, (which he stllllovmgly mamtams WIth a whole paraphernalta of fertlhzers).
HIs SOjOurn m England was, however, bhortlived. Even III those days the Bnttshers were
klckmg out GUJJus from therr empire and
Patel was no exception. WIth a heavy heart
did our young hero return to India and set
camp at Bhopal. He didn't remam dLJccted
long though. He soon found hunself In the
2

ttllers, Patel mstmctlvely took to ploughing the
stadIUm every evenmg after a hard day's work
m class Sm111 wonder that the famed Joshy
Paul was no m'ltch for him when Patel challenged him to a 5000 m race. Even after
thIS laud1ble achIevement Patel was not chosen
for the athletics team. ThiS was of great consequence smce It changed the course of hiS
life The very next year, he gave up athletics
completely and discovered thiS wonderful
playthmg called a football HIS talent was
Imm dtately spotted by Anupam Sen, the
then footer Captam and smcc then the footer
team has Wriggled out of IgnomlIly to fame.
Opposmg teams, haranglled by hIS sohd defence, resorted to pick-axes, while some even
thfJllght of brmgtng dem'J\ttlOn experts to diSlodge thiS hum1n wall. But the foundatIOn
was concrete. Patel had earned a valuable

s

place for hlmJeif In the team and III the hearts
of soccer fans.
In the meanwhtle, an lllsplIed Patel picked
up new games and represented hiS hostel In
hockey, athletICS, basketball,
volleyball,
boxmg, carroms etc Even m the field of
entertamment he dabbled hiS foot and almost
brought the OAT crashmg down WIth hiS
Bhangra. One would haVe thought that
there had to be a lunlt somewhere but, sad to
say, Patel dId not thUlk hkewlse.
He was elected as SOCial Sec. and Mess Sec.
over consecutwe years The result-the
shambles that the vanety entertamment was
durmg hiS tenure and the bunch of underfed
freaks you see now trymg to sustam a hvmg
in Saraswathl, HIS two years m the political
arena had such far-reachmg repercussIOns
that no one has recovered even till now. In
trus context, however, we would hke to JIlllintain a diplomatiC stlence.
If you thUlk Patel IS a Widely travelled man,
don't kid yourself. Without steppmg an mch
outSide the mam gate, he manages to procure
hiS year's supply of soaps, tooth-paste, cosmetics, laWldry and even hIS tram tickets for
the journey home. How he has JIll1naged to
do thiS, year after year, for five years, remams
a mystery. Why he does thiS became qUIte
obviOUS when he asked u •• 'Vhdt'~ till pomt
in gomg out in a City devoid of all natural
beauty and colours? '
And now when Patel IS about to leave this
Institute, he has entered the third phase of hIs
colourful hfe. Those among you who have
had the good fortune of knowmg hun personally can probably guess what we mean.
suffice It to say that Cupid's arrow has finally
struck straight and true, and he beheves,
being an Aquanan (as the last Issue of
Campastlmes put It) that hiS ttme has come.
He vows that thiS ttme he won't make any mistakes but we are sure he IS makmg one helluva
miss-take.
See you all m Bhopal next year then, over
Shehnal and a bowl of Srtkand.
K.K. and RAGHU.

