S\lmmer 1973]

CAMPASTIMES

7

Reprinted From 'Alankar'

IX INTER liT MEET AT KHARAGPUR
Saturday 24th February 1973
Maj-Gen. Chowdhury
Inaugurates
The IX Intt.r-IIT Sports Meet got off to
a punctual start With the maugur.ll ~peeche~,
flag hOlstmg, pigeon fly mg. Our Chief
Guest, Maj.-Gen. Chowdhury of the Eastern
Conunand, expressed his happmess on the
occasion of his first VISit to an IlT-a rather
pleasant way to start an acquamt.mce, one
should thmk. IIT Kanpur In spotless ducks
stole the March Past Trophy trom the home
team by a smgle pomt Turnout did count
to the Army officers who Judged the display.
After the oath-takmg, mtroductions and more
speeches, we moved over to the first event of
the day, the 110 m hurdles heats.

Narendra Kumar skims the last
hurdle Daljit Singh: yet another
Record
In what was an mdlsputable fimsJl, Narendra
Kumar shot through a battery of hurdles
spaced over 1[0 m m 166 secs , smppmg
o I sec off hiS old record Half an hour later,
he burst past Swapan Das With his long strides
to slash a mighty 0 7 sec of the 400 m record,
51 0 seconds In the hurdles Chandran Paul
(MDS) Inched past Nadlg for second place,
while Asoke Chandra brought m an additIOnal
pomt to gIVe Moldras a tally of 9 pomts m the
hurdles event alone Mam, trailing far behmd,
made up tremendously but reached the tape
only after Padukone (KNP) who came 3rd
1fl the 400 m
DalJlt Singh, tall and robust as ever, outdid hiS own Inter-lIT record In the Hammer
Throw by a massive margm of over IS feet.
He threw 3S 96 metres, a full 5 6 metres more
than hiS nearest tlval John Chand (ex KNP,
now MDS). Talvar of Kanpur and Saml of
KGP meekly brought up the rear.

Shotput
No surprIses were m store DalJlt Smgh
putted a comfortable 13 33 m , and bettered
the prevIOUs mark of 12 40 m by almost a
meter The places behtnd him were taken by
the gargantuan Papam (BMB), John Chand
(MDS) and D Roby (MDS) Dantas and
the Tevan brothers found themselves completelyover-shadowed.

Basketball
LIttle KrIShnan til BIg Form
The whistle blew at 6 IS P m. With Bombay
WIlmmg the toss Sconng was sluggish In the
mltlal stages except for Vtnay Kaul's (BMB)
show of 9 pomts In 10 mmutes He suffered
an ankle Injury soon after and went out of
actlon Madras Chandran Paul (14 pts)
developed cramps and left the scene too.
From the half-tlffie score of 37-20, Madras
straightened their spmes, pulled up their
socks and plunged mto busmess BMB's
Lee-Seetharaman-Seelan coucin't cope With
MDS's long passes, shrewd teamwork and
qUick-fire scormg Krishnan (28 pts) and
Easwaran (I [ pts ) \'ere fa~t and rekntlcs~, and
b~o.ldc ned the g lp ~te Hilh t rom 17 \<) 3Z, to
give Madras finlsrung scores of 78-46,

Jayant spins viciously
The first match saw Juyant m acrlon, which
was all there was m the encounter He
played hiS matches at a fast pace, the opponents
havmg no answer to hiS VICious topspms whIch
always seemed to find thl. edge of the table
Tactful Naralkar of Bombay was the only
one to give hlffi a scare, the scores In theIr
second game readmg 7-6, 9-8, 16-15 In hiS
favour. But finally JaYolnt finIshed off the
game findmg hiS touch agam Probdbl} It
was tough gomg for Narc.1kar h.lvmg to play
both tenms and T.T. on the same day. The
other matches were prolonged choppmg affairs
With occaSIOnal smashes The mOf(. consistent
WOIl
rhe scores speak tor themselves.
K Jayant
d Rasl.uttl 21-12, 21-5
Sankaran lost Naralker 18-21, 20-22
RaJgopal
d Anand
ZI-IS, 21-11
K Jay.lllt
d
Narollker 21-9, 21-16
RaJgopdl lost RJ.~l.uttl 22-2.h 18-:n
Sankaran
d Anand
21-12, 21-17
RaJgopal
d
Naralker 21-7, 21-13

3

Volleyball
KNP goes llitu tile finals
Kanpur's wonderful teamsmanshlp prevailed over Bombay's 1I1dIVIdualtty m a thrIlhng 3 games duel 13-15, lS-7, 1S-6 There
seems a dlstmct pOSSibility that Madras may
beat KGP m today's seml-fmal, m any case
the MDS/KGP match WII! find It tough gomg
.Igamst tht. powerful splkmg, blocklflg and
placmg of the well-knIt Kanpur team.
Tennis
MDS beat KGP 3-0
The Laxnllnarayan-Ch1l1u match prOVided
few excItIng encounters and It was an easy
wm for Laxllu at 6-1, 6-2 Chmu rushed the
net time and agam, but was comlllg m far too
close and L'lXlnI hold no problem passlflg him
or lobbmg the b111 gently over hiS head On
the other court Nasar, strokmg fluently led
S-2 m the first set agolmst Ra\ I Joseph and then
of a sudden seemed to lost. hiS gnp on the
mltch RWI kept the ball III play, pulled up
to 5-all, sustamed an anxIous moment at 6-all
.md then drove home for an 8-6 victory He
went on to lead 4-0 m the second set, dropped
the next 3 games to a heaVily breathmg Nasar,
and pushed for the match at 6-4
KGP vmdlcated themselves 111 the doubles
where Nasar's sharply hit service returns and
Chlnu's volleYing enabled them to Win the
hrst set at 6-4 The Madras pair made qUick
work of the next set (6-1) and strained hard
to reduce KGP's lead of 4-1 m the third
Deuce was called 8 Urnes III the 6th game
(LaXlm's service), but Chmu's erratic servmg
proved to be KGP's nemesIs and Madras softly
dmked the ball cross court to wm 4-6, 6-1,
7-5·

Football

The Madras-Delhi match was a drab affaIr
With neither team dommatwg. Madras, With
better mdlvldual players, of whom Raja. their
goal-keeper, and Patel, their stopper, were
espeCially good, failed to comb me well and
lacked proper fimsh The Deihl left-out was a
good dlstnbutor of the ball and Delhi made up
tor their poor standard With an aggressiveness
which kept Madras off~balance. Madras
missed an early chance Delhi came back
With a goal lffimedlately after half~ume-a
goal that was entirely due to mlsJudgement by
the Madras custodtan who made no attempt to
stop the shot Madras attacked more after
thiS, but, partly due to bad luck, couldn't score
an equahser. Wmners Deihl Will now play
Kanpur.

Athletics
Broad Jump
We witnessed more than our falf share of
• no Jumps' and Bombay found themselves
eItmmated III thiS way Through It all, Rakesh
Upadhyay (DLI) Jumped steadily to \\m the
top stop with 6 14 m DalJlt Smgh (DLI)
took second place and brought himself mto the
runmng for the Illdlvldual championship,
,hould N.lrendn Kum Ir slip III anv ot hiS
.. \ l.lU~ :1\1
::,
Lhu\\ dhur)
(i\lD S) md
D. Roby (MDS) picked up the remammg
POints as Nadlg failed to get m a good Jump.
5000

m.

ManoJ Kumar of lIT Kanpur managed
to shake off KGP's NagaraJan m the last
lap of the SOOO m race to chnch the race
With a tlmmg ot 18 mm 3.0 secs. Tl\vary
ot KGP havmg dropped out midway, Javed
Mahmud of Madras came 111 a close thud.

Hockey
Clukkr scores for MDS
On a slow ground the Madras forwards
attacked strongly and centre-forward Chandral>ekhar Iyer pushed the ball mto the Deihl
goal In the 6th mmute. Dllhl were surpnsmgly tame and rarely got past the Madras
defence, the 4 short corners they got were
all abortive. Left half Da\ Id Roby kept
Ddhl at bay, wlule thl Madras forwards
occupltd themselves by mll>~lflg t\\O long and
two short comers .lnd an easy goal m the 24th
mmute, m an othenV1se sedate match.

NARENDRA KUMAR SIlA TTERS KGP'S
RELAY HOPES

Commentary
Sunday 25th February
Madras have reached the finals of five major
games. TenniS, Badmmton, Hockey, T.T.,
Basketball and are certam wmners m the
Athletics m which they lead Deihl (34) by 32
pomts and KGP (2S) by 41 POllltS. Considermg that today's Hurdles and Javelin are
Narendra's pet events, there seems no POSSIblhty that any other IIT can touch Madras'
chaste total ot 66 Four out of the five finals
are heaVily biased In Madras' favour, thiS
together With 6 pts In Gymnastics and a
pOSSible 2. m Volleyball, gives them a grand
tally of around 74 pomts-a clear, unbeatable
first. Kharagpur have entered the finals of
rootball, Hockey and Volleyball and have a
good chance of bdggmg the first two. Kanpur
have entered five finals too and while TenniS,
Basketball and Football may go agamst them,
Volleyball IS a certamty and T.T., an excltmg
posslbility. KGP Will have to muster second
posltlon m AthletIcs and stram every smew
to capture third pOSItions m the three racquet
games If they want to beat Kanpur to the
second posItion III the overall ChampIOnship.
WithIn an hour of thiS mornmg's events we
Will know for sure whether Narendra Kumar
has scored over DalJlt for the IndiVidual
ChampIOnship TIllS will put hun In the
category of C B Slffipson and Richard
D'Souza who have won the ChampIOnship
tWice and a smgle notch behind Bombay's
Deepak Swarup who IS the only one to have
won It thnce. In nme Inter-llT Meets
Kharagpur has made It to the top 6 tlffies,
Bombay-once, and Madras are domg It for
the second year.
Will Aquatics and Cncket come mto the
Meet? And Will there be as much enthuslasm
for the Meet m future years? are thoughtprovoking questIons as we say good-bye to
the IXth Meet.

CHANDRAN PAUL CLEARS
5 ft. I I in. IN HIGH JUMP
Kharagpur salvages Volleyball
Swapan Das ran beautifully, Shenoy put
BMB m the reckomng but Narendra Kumar
Simply swept the cro" d off Its feet. He came
up trom behllld and zoomed through the last
lap m a breathtaking spnnt to glVe Madras
a gallopmg Athletics total of 66 POllltS. Cool,
confident and admlfably competent, he \vaved
hiS arms m Jubilation looked back In naive
CUrIOSity, acknm.ledged the cheers from the
cro\\d-all a good 100 m from the fimshmg
tape-and yet ran home, an unambIguous first I
Another ne" rc{,ord was Sl t b) Chandran
l'aul (I\lD::') \\Itll ,Jump ot 5 II",.h ag.ltn~t
the old record of S'
Nadlg of
Kharagpur came III second (5'9") With Shenoy
(BMB) III the third place.

lot".

Volleyball
Kgp. d. Mds 1S~12, IS-II
In a closely contested first game Mlshra
(KGP) played well despite a spralll, while
Bhatia's seIVlces pro\ ed too deadly for Madras,
Bala, the captam of lIT, Madras and Thomas
fought back With po\\erful smashes and
accurate placmg In the second game KGP
stalled at 14-6 and finally levelled out With a
IS-U VictOry.

Discus
No Records Smashed I
Surpmmgly enough, DalJlt Smgh (DLI)
did not brea.\... the eXlstmg record m reachmg
3732 m tollo\\cd b) Pappam (Bl\lB) at
3236 m. I RaJasmgham.lfld D Rob), both
ot Madras, occupied the other two places.

