II

CAMPASTIMES

Summer 1973]

SPORTS DAY 1973
Sports Day. Besides the \\eekly mOVIe at
OAT, this IS perhaps the only other occaSSlOn
when young and old can be ~CCll together
This parttcular event IS espeCially heart
warmmg.
Sports day chmaxes the tttamc struggle for
the coveted Schroeter cup. the symbol of
supremacy ID campus sports In the last
few years It has been rare when the outcomc
had not been already decided, barrmg shock
defeats. This year was no different We
went mto the sports day with Godavart
definttely becommg champs Howe\ er the
fight for the second berth \\as ~ttl1 b(.mg
fought between Saraswathl and Ganga, \\here
the btter was succes~ful N'lrmad I and
Ganga battled It out m the athltt!cG field

\\hlle Saraswathl could only watch the
procecdtngs.
Narcndar walked a\\ay with the tndlvldual
champlonslup, and \\l1h luck he could have
had the untquc distinctIOn of bemg undisputed champ for fh" years m succc~slon Mean"hlle, Godavari became the first ever hostel to
total over 100 pOIDts-wlth an Impressive
tally of 103
In the long Jump, Satlsh Kumar put up a
fine show With a leap of 19' 19" With chou
trailing at 19' 7Y' The 4 X 100 was qUite
c10sc \\Ith Ganga, Narmada and Godavan
ficldtng some of the toughest blows known
In lustory but Narendar beat Chmm to the
post and that IS how Godavan made It

The ladles put up a good show at the
musical chairs and I am sure somebody or
the other made It. The staff team put up a
bold show m the tug-of-war event agatn8t
the ~tudents but had to lose III the end
The March Past was the last Item on this
occasslon Looks hke every hostel IS slowly
gomg ID for Its own flag-Nice flags too.
Mr. P. Unnikrishnan, the chief guest gave
a spnghtly speech which made the day for
all of us present there. ThiS was fonowed
by Prof Gupta's report. Mrs. Unmkrtshnan
gave away the pnzes.
!tiMESH PATEL

THRE.E YEARS OF GYMKHANA
Three memorable years of the Gymkhana
are mscrlbIDg therr last chapter. In the years
to come, these thIee years are gomg to shme
out, toO this was the begmnmg of the Golden
Age of IlT Madras Maybe we can call It
the-Golden Age of Gupta]1.
Bemg well acquamted With the sports side
of the G)'mkhana, I can defimtely say that he
(prof Gupta) has worked, God knows how, a
miracle. The Madras Meet tn Itself was full
of near mtracles The reformation of the
truant football team IS an example. 1970-71
was a good year for all sports actiVIties. Prem
watsa coordmated activIties well and brought
home the first Victory at the meets The
meet after all was the real test for the
Gymkhana the problems were enormous,
they seemed Insurmountable but the totl paid
off. With Prof. Gupta and Dr Aoantaraman

pushmg everyone on, the other lIT's didn't
know" hat hit them I The grab was good,
the atmosphere conge mal
The PTI's had their problems too notJust
the trammg part but also matnt:lInlng the
fields, the equipment etc.
1971-72, turned out to be an even better
year for the Gymkhana results wise The
problem of the meet arose. Who would be
wllhng to host It ~ As usual, the Prof. Gupta
Dr. Anantaraman team had been given the
task of retamIDg the general champlOnshlp.
The PTI's had to start huntmg around for
equipment I must thank Mr. Jogo Rao m
thIS respect for the care he took of the football team's reqUirements m the absence of
Mr K U. N Rao But unfortunately we
had to walt another year fo show our mettle.
In 1972,-71, the captatns were Included ID

Sfeermg Committee (1972-73)

the Sports councd meetmgs, In the hope that
thiS would solve problems. However smce
the meetmgs were held ID the hostel, the
meetings were not enttrely offiCIal. A mark
agamst Narendra.
The meet was to be at KGP now and plans
were drawn up to go by land (traID) via
Bombay, another by sea (P.K's bramwave
no doubt) and some more ambitious souls
(Sankaran, Patel Pondy)-b) air. All the
eqUIpment was got ready and the shirts too
and everythmg was set. But then that's one
thing about GuptaJI that future preSidents
could take note of. He gives us a free hand
Ifl many thmgs, but setp out of hoe and he
puts us back In our place We could always
look up to him for help, knowIDg he'll give
It to uc;
!tiMESH PATEL.

