CAMPASTIMES

- -- -

(Summer 1973

JereM

ASHOK D'SOUZA-A CARICATURE
B

Ku~

Ashok D'souza could Just as well have been
anythmg mstead of a human bemg Every
five mmutes With hl\ll, as he grms and
grlffiaces through his words only serve to
strengthen the belIef that God was either
deeply warned about the chimpanzee's broken
leg when he created D'su or had gone mto a
revene dunng the act and had woken up with
an ass, consldermg hun thoughtfully Remarkable I-the pranks that the subconscIous
can play on one I The net result, whIchever
the case, was this phenomenal young chap
Every speCIes, after all a product, must
mevltably pass through Its birth, growth,
matuntyand declme phases Some, however,
prefer to skip alternate ones and, even more
drastiC, a few unrnortal ones, hke D'su, prefer
to sleep out all but the extreme phases.
Which IS why, perhaps, you find that D'su
was born at the wrong stage of the wrong
exponenuaI
It IS with nostalgia that one looks back at
the days five years ago, when the early hours
of some days used to find us trottmg enthUSiastically to the stadium to practise for such
piffle as an mter-hostel crIckt match Those
were also the days when we first saw D'su
make contact With the earth With the startlmg
regulaTity of Alan Knott or Lev Yashm. That
suntle led hun quite naturally to the footer
field whtle It left us Wishing that he would
drop In at the bathroom on the wav But no f
trifles such as baths wcn. not tor <;uch as hml 1
The only occasIOns when he would hCl..d the
desparrmg cnes of humantty were beforL hls
Sunday Church Vlslts-whlCh mevltably leads
one to chroruc1e that one all consummg affiur

oflus.

Rwnour has It that he first met thIS femalewhom we shall henceforth refer to as Fned
Eggs for want of a more authentlc-soundmg
appellatlOn-1fl the church. Rumour goes
on to have It that he contmues to mtet her only
at the church and smce he IS known to commune With God In HIS House only on
Sundays, we surmls(.. that he meets her only
1ll the church and only on Sundays
It may
have all started-as these thmg~ drt known
to do-with the sharmg of a prayer-book or
With the matchmg of her bra and hiS cuffhnks-bllt It very soon cl<..Veloptd mto a thmg
of consldLrablc proportlons. D'su used to
moon around absent-mmdedly durmg the
week-he even nodded ab~ently when Major
Jeffery exhorted hlffi to Jom the N C C and shoot off first thmg Sunday mom mg.

Thmgs proceeded towards their logical conclUSIOn and hc deCided to take the plunge.
The accepted procedure m such cases has been
to elope first and then say, ' I do '. So It has
been through the ages But thiS gentleman
deCided to reverse the procedure Come
Sunday mommg and he marched grunly up
the aisle when the fly popped out the omtment
tube m the form of the female's parent. ThiS
ancient seems to have been more mod than
such anCients usually are-ill the matter of
the breadth of hiS belt SIX of the best, we
are assured, were administered In publIc, and
a week passed before D'su dared Sit down Without wmcmg
But seldom can the world keep great personages down for long and D'su was soon
bouncmg around the soccer field agam He
was busy keepmg Chandran and Ba(r)bs on
their toes-besides beltmg some brave cncket
blows Oil Saturday afternoons-and thmgs
seemed to have settled mto thetr rut
agam when first Saraswathl and then the stage
captured him The first was In the nature of
thtngs but the second could have been aVOided.
Came the day when Ramu had hIm beautifully
decked out-a few appendages of synthetic
matertal tucked m at strategic parts of hiS
anatomy-and D'su waltzed m before the
floodlIghts, With a record brazenly proclal\llmg hlm, {lr rather her, to be Bakamma I
sull remember With awe. the hush that descended on the 0 AT, as we watched Sam path
chase D'su around the stage to the aCCompanIment of that b,zarre song and had we not
already had a dun view of Sampath's taste m
,L!atld fidds, we would have asked 111m why
thc hell he wanted to seduce a thmg hke
THAT for. There was a concerted rush
backstage when the ltghts went off and I record
here that at least onL promment staff member
made adv,tnces of a dubIOUS nature to the
young' thmg '.
There wen... a few more such appearances
on stage but With one of those rare flashes of
mSlght that probahlhty told us would ntver
~treak through hIm, he toned them down
drastically Jommg what IS popularly called
tht Schroeter wmg, he deCided to concentrate
all out on sports ThL only means of gettmg
mto thL footer team, he deCided, was to have
an affair WIth the captam and thiS he proceeded
to do With hiS usual c1mlcal effiCiency To
thIS day, you can see hIm avert IllS eyes when
Poltel w,llks m to c.)mpkte the landscape
Anyway, how else do you explam the fact that
thiS guy who could do nothmg nght tXCtpt m
the goal, wa~ suddenly promoted to the POSItion of Institute centre-half And how else,
pray, do you explam the mystenous appearance

of Snoopy, the Saraswathl mascot, m the wing,
overnight?
Once he started off, D'su was never one to
look back. Saraswathl's glucose-holder for
one year, he graduated to sports sec. 111 the
next and III hIS final year, was the unoffiCial
counterweight to P K 's crIbbmg. (Now
you know how P K got GuptaJI's award). He
made the Institute B teams III cncket and
hockey and played their one-match-a-year
With all the gusto of a true Saraswatlan. Skatmg hockey next captured hun and we hear
that at the National ChampIOnships at
Chandlgarh, he had the Surds m raptures over
hiS desperate goal-keepmg. Knowmg, however, Surds as we do and the normal extents
and reasons for their rapture, we shall sttll
make-belleve that It was mdeed hIS goalkeepmg that the Surds went crazy OVer
Somewhere m the meantime, he seems to
have taken an mtense dlsb..ke to the Institute
Gymkhana and proceded to work It off by
stepping lUto the ring With Batla Even
today shorty who was one of hiS seconds
exhales a breath of pure horror as he recall~
how D'su won that fight Shorty vehemently
asserts that all that he told D'su was to use
hiS left Jab and strongly dentes ever havmg
asked him to use hiS teeth At all events, the
hundreds throngmg the 0 A.T. watched III
bewellderment as, at the bell, D'su walked
up to Batla and gnnned Batla, who has seen
hiS share of the world, Just stood and looked,
and Just as he was begmmg to shake hiS head
ill bqvllderment, D'su clobbered hun. That
then, was that. Everyt1IO.e Batla looked like
gettmg aggressive, D\11 would Ju~t ~how him
hiS teeth and, as Batla stood and gaped, let
him have It They tell me that Batla was
mcoherent for hours after the fight but he
neVer let on why aftenvards Anyw·olY the
only permanent change that he made III hiS
tenure a~ Institute Gen. Sec was m the shape
of D'~u's nose-that memorable nght
Then there was that tiff which D'su and
PhillIp almost had over that pocket-sized
classmate of theirs but fuller details are not
avaIlable
When he walks mto your room 1Il hiS dark
In!>tltute Jersey and darker, dirtier short~,
apologl'img for bathtng only at midnight
every day, glvmg you hiS lopSIded gnn and
saymg, III hiS II1lmltable mlxturL of DmgoShakespeare-D'su_' What Ish't? ' you
realtse With a pang what a pleasure It has
been knOWing thiS guy But thcn the pang
gIVes way first to reltef and then to deliCiOUS
hapPIness as you thlIlk of the pleasure that IS
III store for you-never havmg to See hi
agam r i m

