problems that extend beyond the conﬁnes of a single subject,
that they will make engineers. Will it be easy ?
All this is not new. It is perhaps true of every batch
that has passed out of here that it had a small percentage
of true engineers and a frightening majority of nowhere
people who could have spent ﬁve years better somewhere
else. But to shrug and say that it can’t be helped is to
conﬁrm us in this morass. For an institution which, with
its reputation and exacting selection, gets the best young
people in the country, it is an abominable record. And
the immediate fault is with both the students and the
teachers. With the latter for peddling their counterfeit
philosophies, for exhibiting the eﬁ‘eteness of the rest of
our society, when it is precisely they who should be the
most dedicated, energetic, and honest, when it is they who
should be most concerned about genuine education. And
with the former for mindlessly accepting all this, for
becoming by default another generation of fakes.

it rain gait,
0V6 £33 AYe Tea.

How do we break out of this circle? When do we begin
The difference between a genuine note and a counterfeit
one is that the genuine note is a token of useful work done,
of some commodity produced, some service rendered;
whereas a counterfeit note, though it may look exactly the
same as the real thing, is the result of work directed
solely towards the purpose of producing the note itself.
We have to understand this difference if we are to understand
our counterfeit society, if we are to rise above it and

attempt to change it.
Counterfeit society ?

Yes indeed.

Take education in

our COuntry as an example. We work solely for our
certiﬁcates, diplomas, degrees, titles; there is a prescribed
set of steps to be followed, books to be read, stuff to be
memorized, examinations to be written, years to be spent.
And we plod mechanically through it all, for those bits of
paper.

And those bits

of paper

will buy

us

comfort,

security, happiness, because no one know the difference.
We have forgotten what those certiﬁcates should mean.
Or perhaps we have not forgotten, perhaps we are just
plain dishonest, as dishonest as forgers. Won’t it all
catch up with us one day? Real situations demand real
peolple, not zeroes with certiﬁcates to prove that they’re

rea .
This cup of aye aye tea is over for a few hundred of us.
We have survived ﬁve years (some less, some more);
perhaps that is good enough. We know enough engineering
to know when someone is bullshitting us. And we know
enough engineering to bullshit the uninitiated. Is that good
enough? A small percentage have learnt their engineering
well. They have been lucky to realize that learning engineering involves more than passing examinations in seventy
subjects—they have worked at developing an integrated
body of knowledge which they know how to apply. The
rest are uncertain, ﬂoundering, confused. They have gone
through the prescribed motions but know so little. Some
are bravely optimistic that they Will be able to recollect
and connect up the spate of subjects in which they have

passed examinations, that they will be able to tackle

to develop a sense of urgency. a sense of hard and honest
work to be done? The year 2001 is just twenty—seven
years away. And we who pass out now will be bang in the
middle of it. (Unless we go bang out before that.) 2001,
when all those exponentially-rising graphs of the futurologists
leap clean off the page. Are we prepared ?
Let us begin right here at home, in aye aye tea. Let us
begin at least to produce a high percentage of real engineers.
People are generally agreed that an engineer, as a person working in applied science or technology, is required to have avery
broad background in the philosophy, methods, tools and
substance of the sciences; he should have a good grasp of
the fundamental principles of a Wide variety of diSCiplines;
he must be always alert and aware as to their pOSSible
applications, for which his knowledge must be a compos1te
whole and an integral part of him~not something he has
to pull out of cold storage when he is told that to solve
such and such problem, such and such items of information

are required. He must also, if he is to be an aware member
of society, have an understanding of the social seiences, of
psychology, management, history, and so on.
Havmg decided what elements we need to get the compound,
it becomes a question of putting them all together under
the right conditions. So (to wring the analogy dry‘.) we
put a pinch of this element into one test tube, a dollop of
that into another test tube, a semester of this into a third
test tube, etcetera. And each tube is tested—it must be
at least 75% full, and must contain chemical of at least 50%
purity, in order to pass. We then tie the whole lot
together, put them in a cardboard cylinder, and declare
that we have synthesized ‘ b-tech-2789-met ’ in our fabulous
INI-Model IITM. The student passes his periodicals and
examinations and, if you frighten him enough (god knows
with what idea in mind) he may even attend 75% of the
classes. The object now is most deﬁnitely .surVival, and to
surVive one doesn’t have to learn engineering, one doesn’t
ever have to face a real problem.
If the powers that make policy here, _that work on
curriculum development and teacher training, and if our

teachers, those most directly concerned With our education,
if these people on whom so much depends, though they
may not themselves take seriously their rhetoric—‘ national
importance’, ‘future of the country’, etc., if these people
be allowed one single insight, may it be this: that to teach
engineering, or anything else for that matter, one has to
start right from the beginning to teach creative lateral
thinking, alongside the more common process of vertical
thinking.
Vertical thinking consists of going, step by logical step,
from axiomsI deﬁnitions, and known facts, to results which
generate more hypotheses, deﬁnitions, and results. It is an

iii-depth study of a particular subject. In ﬁve years here
most of us have had less than ﬁve teachers who could
demonstrate this process With reference to their subjects.
If training in vertical thinking is poor, training in lateral
thinking is almost non-eitistent. Lateral thinking is the
connecting up of diverse areas of knowledge into a useful
whole: it is the process whereby our minds expand horizontally and learn to approach any matter from a hundred
different angles. As such it is a process Vital to an engineer,
who must muster a vast amount of information and ideas
to work at any problem. More generally, it is an essential
requ1rement for any person we are to call educated. On
this count we, both students and teachers, fall far short of
being educated people. And what we get in ﬁve years here
falls way short of an education.
It is for all of us to begin to make our system more
meaningful, to make this an institute of genuine education.

This demands of the students and faculty a competence, a
devotion to learning and teaching, an honesty, an open.

mindedness, an energy, which they have not often displayed.
The onus is beam on the faculty, for it is more difﬁcult to
inspire than to be inspired. It IS for them to inspire the
students, however, both as persons and as teachers.

Only

then Will we have real education. And only then can there
be anything close to the ‘ harmonious staff-student relationships’ that the public relations people feed so disgustingly
to the outSide world; mere prox1mity. The fact that staff
and students stay on campus, doesn’t mean a ball, and
everyone knows it.
When you have had an honest look at things and seen
what is wrong and what needs to be done, the ideas start
coming fast. Shouldn’t we have a more co-ordm‘ated
curriculum? Shouldn’t we encourage work on projects and
term papers right from ﬁrst year? Shouldn’t we exhume
our staff and course evaluation programmes, which seem to
have been quietly buried somewhere ? And so on.
I shall stop now. To write down the collective experiences
and impreSSions of so many of us during the last ﬁve years
is animposs1ble task. I have scratched the surface, and
mentioned a few things that a lot of us have felt very
strongly about. But in the end it is upto you who still
have time to serve, and to you who have to take care of
those With time still left in here, it is upto all of you to
work things out. We’ll be out there if you need us. Be
honest With yourselves and others, and learn to care for
people. The rest will follow.
Grouse VERGHBSB.

