fine/6171‘ Wise/0122

all beautiful things
are written on

blank pages on
blank people
emptiness is
felt on
souls
of people
space is
created in void
void
of space
created us

If you have the patience to listen to your grand-mother,
you will see that she unknowingly talks a lot of Astronomy
—more than a modern graduate in Science. She Will say

10 days and so once in three years an extra month is added.
The Souramana year at preSent begins on April 14th and
the Chandramana year is linked to this starting point.

when the New Moon or the Full Moon takes place, talk

we create

blank pages the empty space
and all of us are
written in
books
empty books
kept on
shelves that
collect
Dust
even
when
it
rains.

about Ekadasi, Ashtami, Kirthigai and also the various
austerities that should be observed on these days. But if
you ask her the why and wherefor, she Will say that you
should not ask her any impertinent questions especially
since you do not do all the Pujas she does or apprecmte the
efﬁcacy of the discipline she adheres to. She Will discuss
ﬂuently the Panchanga or the Hindu Calendar (Almanac).
‘The entry of Guru (Jupiter) or Sani (Saturn) from one
sign to the next one is to be spoken of with great reverence.‘
The Hindu Calendar or Panchangam is generally the
ornament of the Priests or old folk in the home. Ir olden
times when the communication system was not like that of
the present day (we have the railways, the telephone, the
post, etc.) it must have been pretty diﬂicult for a common
man to know the advent of the seasons and the various
dates for his many needs. The science of Astronomy, however, was well advanced and they evolved an ingenious
method to introduce this time scale into the daily walks of
life. They were well versed with the 12 signs of the Zodiac
(the Rasis) and the movements of the Sun, the Moon and
the planets. They could calculate the time when the New
Moon or the Full Moon occurred.
Unlike the beginning of the Western year, the Hindu
year has an astronomical signiﬁcance. It is the interval
between two successive crossings of the Sun across the first
point of Aries (Mesha) or the Vishu or the Meshadi Bindu
which means the beginning point of the Mesha Rasi. This
is called the Souramana system or the Solar measurement
system. Its length is a little more than 365.25 days.

bats
ﬂew

out of the moon and the spiders crawled the sky
There is another system in which the interval between
two successive conjunctions of the Sun and Moon is taken
as the Unit and the length of the period is nearly 29.58 days.
This system is called the Chandramana system or the lunar
month.

and we felt the
broken wings
of birds
that ﬂew out of our windows.
RANJIT AHUJA.

In Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the Souramana system is
used and in other parts of India, the Chandramana system.
Twelve Lunar months are less than a Solar year by about

On Amavasya or New Moon, the two luminaries (Sun &
Moon) rise together and set together. This is the reason
why we do not see the Moon on this day. On the next day
or the tithi, the Moon goes eastwards from the Sun by 12°
and it rises later than the Sun by about 48 minutes (on an
average) and sets later in the evening by about the same
interval.
On Full Moon day the Moon rises when the Sun sets.
But after that, the Moon rises later by 48 minutes every day
after Sunset till Amavasya, when both the luminaries rise
and set together.
After New Moon day, the Moon separates from the Sun
by 12° a day. Each day is said to havea phase of the
Moon. The ancients found that during certain tithis when
the separation 18 45°, 90°, 135° the aspects are maleﬁc in
nature and so an austere life should be observed during
these days. The 45" represents the Chaturthi, the 90° the
Ashtami and 135° the EkadaSi. The Vinayaka Chaturthi,
Gokulashtami and Vaikunta Ekadasi represent a typical
example for each. On the other hand, Aspects of 30°, 60°,

120° (Thritheiya, Panchami, Dasami) are considered very
auspicious.
It is also interesting to note that months are named after
the stars (Nakshatras) on the full moon days of the months.
For example in the ﬁrst month when the Sun enters
Mesha or Aries sign, the full moon occurs in the star
Chitra which is on the 7th sign from Mesha. So the ﬁrst
month bears the name of the star China. The second
month is called Vaikasi as the full moon in this month
falls on the Nakshatra Visagam. In the eighth month
Karthigai, Full Moon falls in the star Kirthigai when the
festival of lights (Karthigai Deepam) is celebrated in the
south. The 9th month Margazhi is called so because the Full
Moon falls in the star Mrigasirsha.

If on a full moon, the Sun, Earth and the Moon fall in a
straight line, the light from the sun _is blocked by the earth
and we have the Lunar Eclipse. Similarly, when the Sun,

