Moon and Earth fall in a straight line on a New Moon Day,
a Solar Eclipse occurs.
When the light is suddenly out off from the Moon or the
Sun, as the case may be, the ancients believed that the
benign Solar

or

Lunar

inﬂuence reaching

us

7729 Greer Year

through

the rays and magnetic waves would be intercepted abruptly
and great care should therefore be taken to preserve the
equilibrium of the physical and mental conditions. They
therefore fasted during the period of eclipse so that there
may belittle strain on the digestive system during this
period oftension.
In Astrology (or Jyothish Sastra) the Moon is said to
rule the stomach and the Sun the heart. During eclipses,
the Sun or the Moon is afﬂicted and the ancients believed
that the part of the body ruled by the luminaries will correspondingly be affected. It is also said that babies born at
the time of eclipses may not survive and if they survive they
will have poor health.
There are two important systems in Indian Astronomy:
One based on 27 Nakshatras (Aswini, Bharani, etc.) of the
Zodiac and the other on the 12 divisions termed Rasis

Capricorn :
The precession of Equinox when it moves into the sign of
Capricorn denoting part ﬁsh and part goat represents the
stage in evolution covering the transition from ﬁsh, through
amphibia to the mammalian form.

Cancer :

_ The passage or precession through the sign Cancer with
its opposue sign Capricorn denotes the early third of the
Atlantean Period when the whole earth was intensely watery
and covered by a dense fog. Man had to leave the basins
of Atlantis and come up from the mist.

Sagittarius :
Gemini :

When the Sun leaves Capricorn by Precession, it enters
the Sign Sagittarius and this is pictured in the symbolical
Zodiac as a centaur, part horse and part man. This shows
ghat we have evolved through the animal stage into the
uman.

During the time when the precession was passing through
the sign Gemini, the twins, representing infant humanity, the
division of soul from soul by the veil of ﬂesh became more
noticeable.
Taurus :

Scorpio:
(Mesha, Rishaba. etc.)

The former is lunar in nature and

the letter was originally Solar in nature. Again in the Solar
study there are two schools (a) Nirayana and (b) Sayana.
According to the Nirayana School the ﬁrst point of the
Zodiac is aﬁxed point on the Zodiac and the beginning
point should agree with the beginning of the Nakshatra system. According to the Sayana School, the
ﬁrst point of the Zodiac is the position occupied by the
Vernal Equinox. The Vernal Equinox or the equmoctical point moves backwards in the Zodiac at the rate of
1° in 72 years approximately. This slow backward
motion known as the precession of Equinox is said to
have produced the great changes which we know as evolution. This precessional measure of the Sun is said to mark
the birth and death of races, nations and their religions or in
other words the pictorial Zodiac is a symbolical representation of our past, present and future. developments. The
precessional point in its backward motion moves as follows:
Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, Sagittarius, _Scorpio, Libra,
Virgo, Leo, Cancer, Gemini, Taurus and Aries.

Cancer, said to be a birth sign, and the Moon, the. planet
of fecundation, point mystically to the period of germination
when mankind ﬁrst commenced to exercise the creative
function at the dictates of desire inculcated by the .LUleel'
spirit. Thus mankind opened the gate of phySical life
through Cancer and the opposite sign Capricorn represented
by Saturn ~ready to slay them with his showed the Gate
of Death—or a voyage into spiritual realms where they are
at home.
S. P. MANI.

In the latter third of Atlantis, egoism had developed to a

When the precessional point passes through the next sign
Scorpio, the next step in human unfoldment is not so much

along the physical lines as along the mental. The Scorpion
is the emblem of cunning and subtlety. The ﬁrst faculty of
the mind by infant humanity was cunning and we still see
that this is a characteristic trait among the lower races.

,far greater degree than before, spiritual sight had been
lost and mankind lived more on material plans. The
Bull was worshipped by them, being an emblem of strength
necessary to conquer the material world. Atlantis was the
home of the Bull Taurus. The Jews of today still retain the
Atlantean traits.

Libra :
Libra, ‘ the Scales’, the balance of reason, gives man a
new start upon the evolutionary path.

Aries :
The precessional movement through Aries, the .Lamb,
inaugurated a new phase in religion. Christ came in and
he was called the Good Shepherd denoting the Sign.

Virgo:

Pisces :
Christ called His disciples ‘ Fishers of Men’ for_then
the precessional point was moving from _Aries to Pisces.

Thus under the guidance of the spiritual heirarchies
focussed through the signs of Capricorn, Sagittarius, Scorpio
and Libra, the physical moral and mental attributes were
acquired and mankind was equipped to commence the
spiritual side of evolution. The germ of this progress is
hidden in the celestial virgin, the sign Virgo, which is the
vehicle of the immaculate conception.
Leo :

The precessional movement through the sign Leo raises
humanity to a wonderful spiritual height. The royal sign
Leo, is an apt allusion to the King of creation, who will

then embody the three great virtues of the Masterman,
Strength, Wisdom and Beauty.
-

Jupiter, the planet Benevolence rules this Sign, and we have

seen the supremacy of the clergy and the aristocracy during
this period. Humanity is said to be movmg (or has it
already moved?) into the next sign Aquarius.
Aquarius:
The precessional movement through this sign signiﬁes the
height of evolution. The sign is ruled by_ Saturn. the planet
representing the common man, and being an air Sign, the
conquest of space is also indicated. When the precessronal
point moves from Aquarius to Capricorn, the gate of
Death, we have the completion of one cycle.

