Prologue
This is a more or less impersonal survey of the auto~shop
and the vehicular durbar which is generally hailed as the
transport-cell. Included in it (namely, survey) are utterances
gathered live from the entities who are presumed to be in
charge of the entire business of transport. With due regard
to brevity and coherence, these utterances are not to be
mistaken forthe exact original versions from the entities,

but should be herein considered to be fully representative
of the general trends of thought. The basic idea of the
main text (this being the mere prologue) is to give some
much-needed insight into the causes of that grand and
diiluse total inefﬁciency about which the buses and the
bus-men are jointly accused of so generously and so often :
‘ How come there are always a couple of buses luxuriating
at the garages when irate would-be bus-users are deﬁning
“ amenity" elsewhere‘ ? is just one example from the cribtanks. This survey provides the beginnings of the answers.
Rather tentatively. And all those busly entities who were
involved in the response part of this survey were so
abundantly eﬂ‘usive in responsiveness that it would not be
wrong to say that the listening-in gave more harvest than the
tractors could handle. It was good fun, though.

On ideality, or the lack of it :
Compared to the vast, sprawling, and often confusing
jungle of circuits that the metropolitan buses traverse each
day, the few odd miles that some of the institute buses
take on in their daily shuttle to and from the gate ora
little farther are like so many inches to the fathom. In
view of the simplicity and shortness of their routes and the
comparatively smaller number of regular riders that our
buses have to handle, it would seem that the bus-ing should
border, if not on the perfect, at least on a semblance of
perfection. It sounds as easy as falling oﬁ‘a log when put
that way. Actually, though, it is astonishing to see the
amount, variety and complexity of the problems that the
auto-shop, its inmates, and those directly and indirectly
responsible for it manage to create. Which is precrsely why
our bus-services, though not too staggering in magnitude or
mileage drawn, have acted as the generators of long-standing
accusations, pointless controversies and hot group-discussions.
May be a transport-system simply thrives on self-generated
problems: or may be, as the Sant himself says, the auto-

shop ought to be dissolved and some responSible establishment outside the campus given the task of god-fathering
the whole transport rigmarole. Incidentally, among the
persons who came out with their opinions, the most vehement
critic of the services was the Sant, although much of what
he had to say was more in the nature of peeved steam1etting. And that, perhaps, is the easiest way to initiate
changes in this super-sedentary campus.

4

Accent On Transport
On cribs, various and repeated:
The most frequently voiced grumble from the people who
are certainly the most directly involved with bus-ing (no
pun intended) namely the passengers, is about the total
inability of the buses to adhere to the so-called timer-table
drawn up for the exclusive purpose of being adhered to.
Nerves are frayed. Tempers ﬂare. ‘The bus-services are
in real bad shape,’ groans a chap from year four, ‘ Hell,
during my ﬁrst year nobody gave a second thought to it.
All you had to do was walk up to the stop, whistle for a
while and presto, along came the bus and rolled you out.
But now? You ﬁnd guys consulting stop-watches and
chronometers and making frenzied dashes to be present
at 6.00 pm. for a bus which, hopefully, materializes, say
at 6-30 pm. or it may be one of those red—letter days when
the bus never materializes. Bad? Lousy. Rotten.’ And
there are hundreds of regular bus-users who express their
general disgruntlement with the bus-services in strong,
colourful and mostly unprintable language. Not only on
timings, but, among other things, on over-crowding, driverapathy and the hellishness of being left with nothing but
a thumb to jerk at the gate.
From the one who has the best know:
The key-word involved in explaining many a non-appearance of many a bus is the ‘break-down’ that is being bandied
about so often that it is in danger of losing its pristine purity
altogether. Why do the buses break down with such
maddening regularity ? ‘ The four buses we have are over
ten years old. In distance-wise terms, some of them have
done more than 3,00,000 miles. These buses have seen their
day,’ explains Mr. Ebert. Which, when translated into
human terms would be the equivalent of keeping corpses
alive on a diet of electricity.
‘1 don’t know what the riding-oﬂ" period is in this country,’ declares Mr. Ebert ‘but
in Germany a Vehicle which has been on the road for ﬁve

years is past its prime’.

.

There then, is the nub: milage is cause one, the rudimentary spoiler of all things mobile. Old buses break down.
Would new ones provide a solution? ‘ New buses would
cost fantastic amounts of money’, came the Ebert reply.
‘ No money, no money,’ comes the chant from the ﬁnance

and accounts star chambers. ‘There are bottle-necks’, says
Mr. Ebert, using a term which he is inordinately fond of
repeating, ‘ all over this place’. Every year, he is given a
grand (but what he regards as a shoe-string) budget of
Text by ASTATINE

Rs. 50,000 to'keep the senile buses bumping through the
speed-breakerised tracks in reasonable good health. ‘ That
amount 15 Simply insufﬁcient to maintain these buses,’ he
argues. Which clinches the matter. The old roadsters,
however poetic the injustice of branding them in picturesqueness after the old mountains, have to remain, come hell

or high water.

On bottle-necks, in and around the auto-shop :
Since the break-downs are inevitable, the least that the

regular crowd of bus-riders can be led to expect is as
speedy a return of the invalids from the casualty-wards as
may be possible. Which is the point where a whole
galaxy of relapses germinate. Ailing buses that are dragged
into the auto-shop often go effectively out of circulation for
so long that even the deer begin to feel squeamish about
the quiet and the phenomenal peace of the roads. What,
then, causes these historic delays ?
The crew manning the auto-shop consists of about eight
mechanics (An A-mechanic, two B and ﬁve C) assisted by
ﬁve odd-job helpers who pitch in every now and then.
‘ The auto-shop is certainly not under-staffed, ’ says Dr. V.
Radhakrishnan, ruling out the possibility of that being a
factor. Generally found in action at the Metrological Lab,
Dr. Radhakrishnan has, at present, more or less taken up the
role" of overseer of the auto-shop from Mr. Ebert (who,

involved as he is with the various sections of the Central
Workshops, has been ﬁnding that the auto-shop and the
attached fabrication unit are too much on his hands). In
fact, one of the strongest reasons that surfaced in the course
of this review to explain the prolonged hibernating practices
of the buses seems to be the lack of proper supervisory staff
at the auto-shop. ‘ When I go down and try to tell them
anything, they (the bus-men) pretend not to understand’,
explains Mr. Ebert; ‘ communication is zero and I have to
take up the book of rules and read out the clauses to them.
Sure, what they need is somebody who can put on the
pressure, a full-time foreman who can keep at them all the
time.’ Asked about disciplinary action: ‘You think it is
easy to enforce discipline in this place?’ explodes Mr. Ebert,
rhetorically. And so, unless the bus-keeping is assigned to
somebody who can keep reciting jack-be-nimble-jack-bequick all the way, the buses hauled in will stay hauled in,
period.

On spares, repairs and dependencies :
But then, the coin has another side too. There are
grumbles from the mechanics: ‘While a driver gets paid
overtime when a bus is undergoing therapy, a mechanic who

