attends to the difﬁculty is paid nothing,’ says one of them.
‘_It’s an injustice that I have tried to straighten for a long
time,’ says Mr. Ebert, who is thoroughly disgusted with
the continuous monetary veto that he is handed out every

time he comes up with a suggestion. The second important
reason for the general sluggishness of maintenance is the
nonavailability of good repairing facilities at the shop itself.
‘ A faulty engine has to be shipped to some ﬁrm outside the
campus where it is duly allowed to gather cob-webs. In case
an axle misbehaves and has to be replaced, it is sometimes
weeks before the crippled bus can be put into shape,’
Mr. Ebert declares. ‘We have some of the best equipped
workshops right here and it should be possible to do most of
the repair-work in them,’ reasons Dr. Radhakrishnan, who

is engaged in the task of getting to know the auto-shop
better, ‘why depend on outside ﬁrms who take their own
time to do the needful?’. ‘There is somebody or the
other who goes out almost every day to purchase spares,’
quoth the Sant, heatedly, ‘ which is a damned silly thing’.
And in the meantime, the buses recline. Much of the delay
involved in this piece-meal process can be eliminated if a
stock of spares and accessories can be kept at hand. Dr.
Radhakrishnan has been compiling a list of important
components and frequent trouble-spots on the buses.
‘ Stock-piling of vital spares ought to cut out the delays,’
he agrees. He is a cheery, enthusiastic person and the busservices may get a good dose of spark and ﬁre from him soon
enough.

On the latest addition to the family :
There is a new cream-and-cocoa-coloured member which
has been added to the great vehicular fold on the campus:
a kind of truck-turned-omnibus, that, according to legend,
had been a concept two years ago. ‘ Two years ago,’ says
Mr. Ebert, ‘this scheme to transmute the truck into a bus

was presented to me for inspection’. Being interested in
alchemy, he suggested Simpson Motors for the experiment.
One thing led to another, the project was dragged through
TVS (who never heard about it because they were too far
away) and Essen Body Works (who said it could not be
done) to Champion Motors, a small, gallant ﬁrm that gave
in the lowest quotation and agreed to do it. After long and
involved ﬁnancial detouring, they have done it, and the
product

now

rests,

more or less secure, at the garage,

awaiting the rigours of registration and other formalities.
If the Sant has his way, this unique truck-that-was will
eventually serve to carry our ebullient sportsmen and yellingteams to and from future ebullient matches, making it the
exclusive games-wagon of the institute.

Unless, of course,

the auto-shoppers manage to juggle the new-comer into the
rut of the old-generation services, where it will go through
the entire gamut of aﬂiictions that its elders have taken.
Although pressing this new bus into the regular services may
serve to

infuse a little improvement there, it is a situation

that none of the sport-loving among us should care to
tolerate.

On ideas and measures, big, small or medium:
Part of the so-called transport cell are seven drivers and
the light vehicles, which include the ambulance, the jeep and
the van. The maintenance of these wheelers is again under
the suzerainty of the auto-shop, one of the reasons why
the buses fail to get the complete care that they deserve.
‘ The chaps from the transport cell do not realize the diﬂiculties at the auto-shop,’ says Mr. Ebert, ‘they keep
clamouring for priority on repairs ’.
Among those who advocate certain radical changes in the
existing bus-system, there are several who feel that if the
bus-services are simply converted into a strictly-inside-thecampus-affair, it would solve a host of problems in one
sweep. ‘ At present, buses plying upto Adyar during busy
hours have to ﬁght heavy traﬁic all the way from the gate ’,
points out Mr. Ebert, ‘which does no good to the buses
or to their drivers.’ And not only that, the moment abus
rolls Out on the city-road, the no-standee clause goes into

force and everybody squeezes into non-existent spaces on
occupied seats, quite a distracting experience. Lately, this
practice, fortunately, has gone out of vogue. But these are
attractions on the fringe. The greatest case in favour of a
wholly-inside route is that it would not necessitate the
ritualistic half-yearly pilgrimage that the buses have to
undergo to be granted something called the Fitness Certiﬁcate (FC in short).

Which, to be precise, 'is a farce, since

the usual practice is to deck the concerned rickety bus with
paint and present it, more or less like a souped-up bride
for a quick once-over from a well-tipped groom at the
Trafﬁc Commission, after which the imposter is dragged
back to the campus where less. sinister conditions prevail.
And the FC, like the night the day, follows. ‘A good
idea ’, ventures Mr. Ebert, ‘would be to assign the healthiest of the existing buses to a limited number of trips outside
and to conﬁne all the other buses to an up-to-the—gate
route.’
To substantiate the institute services, proposals to get
some of the city buses to run into the campus have been
made. ‘ There was even a suggestion to have some sort of
terminus at the gate for some of the long-route city-buses,’
says the Sant. But these, in general, are still ideas.

Conclusion :
To put a night-cap on this survey, it would be logical
to conclude that the time has come where all those concerned
in this general problem of transport should realize that
unless the auto-shop is up-dated, and, if deemed necessary,
given the individuality of a department, with responsrble,
level-headed people in charge, it will have to fall apart at
the seams. And with the price of fuels being what they
are now, any fuel-consuming service has to have planners,
ﬁnanciers and a set of policy-makers who know what to do
and how to do it. This should serve as the beginning of a
return to sensible transport.

CROSSWORD CLUBS
Across :

Down :

3.

To write on? Sounds dry (9)
What follows (4)
Toys of the lab (9)
The sound returns (4)
A silent dwarf—at ﬁrst! (5)
Give the kid a pie—he’s got, the little horses (6)
A running noose ?—Trapped aren’t you? (6)
Brings into active operation (6)
A small important part (6)
Direct the cattle ? (5)
The French girl friend (4)
Spoke casually (9)
A one-time? (4)
Lawman (9)
English to German, may be ? (9)
Switched ! (9)
The trembling poplars (6)
Right to possess (6)
Flesh is tame (4)
Always names (4)
_
Where the Ladies can never make it (5)
—— before you depart (5)
What we get from the does (9)
.
The man who puts the ﬂy in the Ointment (9)
To sit on crap samples (6)
Erase, eradicate, expel (6)

What a bet for these particles (4)
Under it Were you born
Under it do you lie.
It is not there at morn

But under it you’ll die (4)

KHNUN.

