General Secretary’s Report for the Year [9734!]
The ‘Institute Day’ signiﬁes the closing of another
academic year—a day of stock—taking. an occasion for
provocative planning. It is the time for us to pause, reﬂect
on the past and plan for the future. It is an occasion for
us to think of what we achieved in the past or what we
claimed to, what we should have and what we should do in
the future.
Speaking of the past, we come to the romantic strike
during which the students played the most important role
ever in shaping the destiny of our Institute. I don’t wish to
sit in judgement over the dreary dark days which we had
to pass through without food, water and electricity. But
there is one thing on which I wish to place a deﬁnite
emphasis—the students have proved that they are deﬁnitely
a body to be considered. They have shown beyond any
doubt that they should be credited with more maturity,
intelligence and capacity than is usually done.
Cultural activities reached a new peak this year. We
have won almost all the inter-collegiate cultural competitions
that we participated in. Mardi Gras ’74 was a major
break-through in the domain of cultural activities. We had
the privilege of witnessing an unprecedented festive
atmosphere here. I would like to thank all of you for
having conducted yourself in an excellent manner, giVing
the novelty a chance and thus making the function the
success it was. In particular the people who helped us out,
especially the girls,must be singled out, for without their
unslagging support, we would have been in a ﬁx.
Speaking of the girls it is heart-warming to note that they
are at last exhibiting a semblance of co-existence. The
participation of Sarayu in the Saraswathi Hostel Sports
festival, their impressive show on the sports day and their
keen interest and active support in all the activities of the
Gymkhana amply demonstrate the welcome change in their
attitude.

We

also welcome their interest in the inter-

collegiate competitions. We hope this healthy trend 15
continued.
The ﬁeld of literary activities this year has been rather
odd. 0n the one hand, our participation in the intercollegiate competition was extremely successful in terms of
prizes won. We annexed the Stella Mary’s Qurz trophy,
the Madras Christian College Debate Trophy and Hi-Club
Inter-Collegiate Debating Trophy. In addition our teams
won prizes in all the inter-collegiate literary competitions
they participated in. On the other hand it is unfortunate
that on the home front a majority of literary events were

not held. The literary secretary informs me that it was the
opinion of the committee that functions need not be
organized simply for the sake of organizing them if the time
and atmosphere necessary were not present.
'
In the Hostel zone there were quite a few major changes
in the structure of the managing body. One deﬁnite
contribution to the general public is the construction of a
common room in the hospital to retrieve the poor patients
from the painful boredom they have to endure during their
stay there.

The Gymkhana bus is very much around.

With a little

co.operation and seriousness from the people above we
should have the bus in the next few days. It will go a long
way in reducing the grievances of the students who go out
to represent our Institute in the Inter-Collegiate Competitions.
’
There is one topic that I’ll never tire speaking of—the
Swimming Pool. Because it has been the'dream of the
decade and the promises of many. I think by far the
greatest achievement that we should rightfully boast of is to
make the mirage of the Swimming Pool at least recognizably
true. And with the fulfilledpromise of our present Director, we
should have our pool by the end of August 1974.
I would like to personally reach out to all the people,
especially the students and Prof. R. K. Gupta and
Dr. Bandow for the active interest, co-operation and
guidance they have shown in seeing the pool through.
I would also like to place on record my sense of gratitude
to the hostels, Film Club and‘”last but not the least the
German Government for helping us out in this cause.
Bright though the past may seem in view of our having
skimmed through some of the most memorable days of the
last year, there are certain facets of the past that call for
practical
suggestions. Having had the privilege to
represent you and work for you I deem it my duty to place
a few suggestions before you.
Having a better set-up just lies in our own hands. It
depends on the attitude of the people concerned. There is
no point in the electorate electing their Secretaries as a
ritual with no concern for the thereafter. It is time we
came to grip with certain facts that are important but are
ignored. If any reasonable changes are to be effected they
can be done only with a lot of thinking on our part, may
be with a little perseverance, with the people above. . _
I have always stressed that involvement in an organisation
is a must for its growth. Only by weaving the various

segments of this institute into a social unit can we hope to
achieve anything productive here.
We should have the willingness to change. We must be
committed to progressive thinking. Periodicals were
originally designed to be a feedback loop for the staff but
they have steadily degenerated into a one hour examination
paper.
The purpose of an examination is not to gauge our
relative ignorance but to test our knowledge to help us to
recognize our short-comings to improve ourselves. But the
system is so grade-oriented that there is a scramble for
marks and more marks and the administration is also kind
ciliough to declare our results upto the third decimal
.
p ace.
We have spoken a lot about our system, about our.

periodicals, of the deteriorating staff-student relationship,
and of our lab. reports that serve no purpose. We have had
committees and more and more committees to solve the
problems like transport, auto-shop, hostels and the academic
matters. We speak of the autonomy and ﬂexibility that we
enjoy. But there is hardly any ﬂexibility in our courses.
The Administration Block is still an impossible maze.
I still see students being sent from pillar to post for undue
reasons. We founded an academic forum to look into the
problem relating to this ﬁeld and I note with disappointment that this committee has never so far fully met.
It is time the people at the top took decisions and
assumed responsibility for them. The mere formation of
committees is no solution to any problem. No system can
ever be perfect. Hence it would beneﬁt us to experiment and
be objective in actively searching for ways of improvement.”
The smooth functioning of the periodical and ﬁnal examination schedules last semester which were drawn up by the
students compared to the disturbed schedule this semester
clearly indicates the beneﬁts that would accrue if students
were consulted on all matters.
I am glad that in an atmosphere laden with so much inertia
and despair there were many people who helped us out in
times of difﬁculties . . .

B. SANTHANAGOPAL
(General Secretary)

