TRIP......
The last hols of the U.G. Course and a lot of the country
unseen.
I took oﬁ' on a train and when I reached Cal.

I stop-

ped. Sadly the stay was short and the lack of transport
made movement impossible.
The City is dirty. The walls full of posters. It was near
Christmas time and all the shopping arcades were prettied-up
for festival.
The call girls plied their trade. One positive attitude
that I noted was the writing on the walls—they said ‘ Long
Live so and so!’ Unlike the usual Xand Y Murdabad.
Sanity slowly creeps back.
On the train a gentleman about 23 years of age comes
around selling pens. The pens look OK. The gent starts
explaining that he is an unemployed diploma holder in engg.
He and some of his unemployed friends manufacture these
pens in a factory of their own and sell them on their own
too. A co-passenger of mine haggled over the price. After a
few minutes of dialogue the unemployed gent started ranting
about the unemployment problem in his state and how
the other states were better off and how all that his C.M.
cared for was whisky. You can walk down the streets of
Calcutta after sunset these days and be sure of getting to
your destination all in one piece—you might, of course,
ﬁnd your wallet missing. A gentleman travelling by
bus held onto the railing. He looked at his watch, the
time was 5.32 pm. Thought, ha, plenty of time, then
looked again at his wrist and lo and behold a bare patch
stared back at him.
The bus was crowded, Justice Bannerjee had been quoted
in the morning’s papers as having said that the 10 paise
stage had a sentimental value. I asked the conductor how
much I had to pay and got a ticket. Ilooked into the
conductor’s eyes—I’ll never forget the hunted look—and
asked him to let me know when we reached our destination.
The conductor asked the other gentlemen if they had tickets.
One small uncle Bong looked straight at him and said
’Ki ?, Ki? I was puzzled and observed keenly. The
conductor repeated his question, uncle said, ‘ I don’t have
one. I don’t need one’. And turned away. Remarkable!
The scenery as you travel by train across W. Bengal is
just beautiful. The still pond surrounded by small
shrubs.
The big house with a wall just touching the waters.
The huts a little distance away. The gentle sway of the
lonely tree on the bank, keeping time with the quiet
sounds that existed yet didn’t exist,

8

the

lotus

in

the

centre of the pond, that spreads its petals for a little
while ; charming those that happen to see it and then goes
to sleep as though to say ‘ I have done my due, if you want
to see me you do yours’. The greenery all around making
you think of all that’s fresh and new and abounding with
joy creating a sense of harmony with nature. Having
traversed through a large part of W. Bengal, you land up in
Assam.
The grace of the lovely ladies in this area has been
compared to that of swans, you just watch them and you
wish you could stay there for the rest of your life. Then
the locomen’s strike started so I had to get away from
there when I still could. So I just up and came away.
Suns

Maiden Speech of the Singer
Those who once courageously resisted the machineguns
are now afraid of my guitar. Panic
spreads when I open my jaws and
cold sweat shows on the fat brows of the olﬁce-drones
when I haunt the hall with my songs, truly
a monster, a plague, that’s what I must be, truly
a dinosaur is dancing on Marx-Engels-Square
a blast within a gun’s barrel, 3 solid lump in the fat throats
of those responsible who fear nothing so much as
responsibility.

Wolf Biermann
So

has invited criticism by orthodox communists as well as.
his colleagues in the West by signing a contract with the
American record company CBS.
The 36-year-old bard of anti-Stalinism whose home-country,
the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) has
tried for eight years to silence him by barring him from
public appearance on stage and publishing, now published
his political lyrics (“ The Lyre ’, ‘ With Marx’ and Engels’
Tongues ’, ‘ For My Comrades’) and his play ‘Dra-Dra’
in the leftist Wagenbach publishing company, West Berlin.
The records of his songs, which earlier had to remain
only on tape in his living room have also been released
there. The ‘ oﬂicially recognized state’s enemy ’ (Biermann
about Biermann) prefers pictures of this room at 131,
Chaussee Road, East Berlin, as an illustration on the recordcovers: ‘ So that it becomes clear that they have not
succeeded in making me a non-person’. Biermann, son
of an old-generation lady-communist living in Hamburg
and a harbour worker of Hamburg whom the Nazis killed
in Auschwitz for being a Communist resistance-ﬁghter,
moved to the GDR in 1953. There he studied political
economics, later on philosophy and mathematics and
suddenly, in 1960, started writing and composmg.
Shortly afterwards his diﬂ‘iculties with the authorities of
the GDR began. Outlawed by the power-holders but
unable to crouch servilely, this sensitive and fragile-looking
protest-singer developed a spirit of stubbornness and power
of resistance that made him a symbolic ﬁgure.
Biermann sees the roots of such endurance in an education
striving for ‘humility towards the Communrsts’ World
Movement’. The motto of his ﬁrst CBS-record—f Don’t
wait for better times ’—denotes a. programme but is also
misleading: Biermann is still waiting—and more than ever.

you’d rather chop 011' your foot
than wash it ?I Rather die of thirst
than drink the bitter juice of my truth ?!
Man!

Unbuckle the belts of fear around your chests !
Even if you fear that your hearts may drop out
Man !

So loosen the fetters by two, three links at least
Let the breast get used to free breathing, free shouting!
Be pressed only by pressure from within, not from without!
With a frank forehead let’s screw the day!
Not to sneeze our great dreams insidiously through a hanky
into this world were we born, idiot !
Riot’s and liberty’s children are our fathers.
So let us be true sons of our fathers:
Without a care for them.

tuck up your loose shirt-sleeves and sing!
shout !

laugh

impertinently !

