18th December—I Day
Football :

We made a desultory start, going down 0-3 to BMB. This
was actually avery respectable score considering that so
many of our veterans were injured—Satish rather seriously—and unable to play. This, however, resulted in a
lot of lst and 2nd years being blooded and Coots said ‘The

nucleus of footer teams to come has been formed today’.
Basketball :

By evening however, spirits soared high in the Madras
camp as our B. Ball team thrammed DLI gloriously at
106-34. And this in spite of the absence of C. Paul—State
Captain. Star athlete and man of many virtues. Kudos to
Krishnan who spearheaded our victory. Meanwhile—
Athletics :

~ Chandran cleared 5’ 9” to win the gold in the H. J.
Javid Mohammed made a bronze in the 50005. Chandran
came 2nd in his 4005. heat. Our performance was much as
expected, so so.
As a lot of referees couldn‘t make it because of the
Bandh, the day’s events were much curtailed even though for
some of the events, the coaches stood-in.

19th December—II Day
‘Madras 0mnipotent——Finalists in Six’
Screamed the banner heading in the local rag. But it
didn’t look so slick earlier in the day. When in Badminton
Bedi (DLI) beat Kumar and Shastri took a game 011' Eddy.
But we made it (3-2) and THAT’S WHAT COUNTS.
Table Tennis
The Worm did a timely turn : The new-look MDS team
with Rajagopal (Captain), Brother Ravi and Parthasarathy
beat BMB very comfortably at 5-1. This was a portent of
better things to come.
Volleyball:
Yet one more pleasant surprise—we were getting inured
to them by now—as under-dogs MDS beat heavily favoured
KNP 15-10, 11-15, 15-10. Full marks to Harish Swamy
and his merrie men.
Hockey :
' After a quick ﬁrst goal by KNP, MDS and especially
Chicki demonstrated their superiority convincingly. Final
score MDS to KNP 2-1.
Tennis:
Though the ﬁnal result was never in doubt, BMB’s
Fazalbhoy gave ‘ Prof’ Lakshminarayan a few anxious
moments. We won thro’ 3-1.
Gymnastics:
This was a dismal show with no individual prizes being
won. The team however managed to make the third place
(way) after DLI & BMB.
Athletics :
Pole Vault—Kumaraswamy came second clearing the same
height as Upadhayay (9’ 9') who came ﬁrst. He had a
.
'
'
larger number of tries.

400 M—Chandran after a good start could ﬁnish only third.
This was the day MDS made sure of the gold, making
it to the ﬁnals in Six.

i

10

a

