A chronicle, just to raise a
few memories
The cold grey daWn found us, eighty odd volleyballers,
basketballers, long/short distance runners, high/broad
jumpers, reporter, etc. on the platform of Dadar. From
here to Powai in buses and a campus which seemed to
consist of a large open ﬁeld between lakes and hills, a large
building, a few hostels, transmission towers (15 kv, I would
say !) and a pipeline. And within an hour of landing up in
hostel No. 8 the whole contingent was Out in the bright sun,
putting shots, volleying balls, vaulting poles and
theoretically and generally, practising, with seri0us, if
conﬁdent faces. We soon discovered that, quite literally,
this was a meet and nothing but a meet, with no respite
except for the odd painting and photography competition
which most of us learnt abOut only after our return to
Madras. Decorations, ornamentations of hapless trees,
doves being released, coloured lights, etc. were conspicu~

ously absent.

Which was all to the good. It never does

mean anything to dress up and attempt to adorn competitions and
Instead, there was, a very real air of seriousness, of doing
things that had become important to lots of people because

of their position in the educational framework. There
were ﬁrst of all, some of the ways in which the body
and mind played games with the physical forces in the world
and men, and the knowledge that all these matters—the
happiness of using and training muscles, the joys of
watching the mind control the body and the surrounding
earth—had be tinged with the faintly sordid presence of the
demon competition. It was not easy to watch, although

excuses, all based on the competitive spirit abounded, people
breaking

up into distinct groups each into temporary

paranoia, during the matches.

However, one could laugh,

salvage the saving juices of humour and, in the evenings,
feel good, walk around the lake, go to sleep, wake up early

and watch the cute people in the weight lifting team
order quintuple scrambleds.

