- From outside it looks like a garden, but in actual fact
it is a grave-yard. The compound wall is laced by
green creepers. In the western corner is a little but of
palm-leavesin which Aandi lives. He is a vagrant, as his
name implies. On the cloth-cradle hung on the neem
branch 11'] front sleeps his dear little son Irulan.

See, there,

his wifeMurugayee is collecting twigs now.
.Aandi is employed by the Municipality on a monthly
pittance of seven rupees and is provided with a hut within the
compound of the grave-yard. His job is to dig graves for
the corpses that are brought there.
Everyone thinks Aandi is crazy. It is not that he is of
unsound mind, but people who have experienced no
happiness consider him so because all the time he keeps
singing merrily. His body knows no fatigue. At forty, he
is up and about like an agile youth of twenty. He does not
know what grief is.
Whether or not he understood the meaning of the words,
he would always keep humming a song, the same song:
In the temple-garden
there was once a rotter

Who for ten long months
was after the Potter.

Brought he home a pitcher
the vain vagrant bloke
Danced with it like mad
till alas it broke!

When he was free, he would tend the plants. It was
because of his loving efforts that the grave-yard wore the
festive look of a garden. Whether he was watering the
plants or digging the graves, he would sing the song in a
hoarse loud voice without grief or embarrassment, the veins
on his neck bulging out thick.

As far as he was concerned,

the song had neither meaning nor signiﬁcance. It was just
a habit.
As it was only a burial ground, the corpses that were
brought there were mostly those of children. To dig a grave
three feet long and three feet deep was no job at all for
Aandi. A towel wound round his head turban-like, his
dhoti raised and tied up ﬁrmly, he would stand with his
legs stretched ﬁrmly apart. A shovel in his hand Would
strike effortlessly, and each time moist earth would
respond in folded lumps. It was as if the earth itself yielded
in willing eo-operation.
The way he hit the earth hard with his shovel, as if to split
its very heart open, emphasizing the words ‘Danced like
mad’, gave the impression that he did know the meaning
of the song. But in truth he did not.
Where did Aandi learn the song and when ? Can we place
every word we know—when we learnt or used it ﬁrst?
A special word, we might perhaps be able to trace.
Where and when did Aandi hear the song ﬁrst? If he tried
he would be able to recollect the occasion.
12

One morning when—Aandi woke up and rubbed his eyes
open, the scene before him struck him with amazement. In
front of the hut on a torn palm-leaf mat, Murugayee was

still fast asleep, contrary to her habit. In his ﬁfteen years
of married life he had not once seen her sleeping when he
was up in the morning.
‘ Murugayee ’, he shouted. She did not answer, but
turned over and continued to sleep.
He got up from his rope-cot and sat beside her. Wondering if she had fever, he touched her forehead gently.
Nothing of the kind.
‘ Murugayee’, he called aloud and shook her.

Murugayee opened her eyes, as if in a state of stupor.
Aandi was alarmed. ‘Murugayee, what is wrong? Are
you not well?’
’
‘ No, nothing. My limbs are aching terribly. I feel
beaten up. My head is reeling ’. Even as she spoke, her
dark eyes opened and closed.
‘I had a dream’.
‘ What was it ? ’
Murugayee rubbed her eyes and yawned. ‘ In the dream,
there was an insect, a small black creature. .’ She shivered
once.
.
‘ Yes ’.
‘ Even as I relate this, my

whole

body trembles

‘ That is it, Murugayee, that is it ’, said Aandi and
laughed. Murugayee was sitting, her body bundled up.
.
He hugged her.
‘ That is it, that is it’, he said.
Murugayee too wanted to laugh but couldn’t because of
her nausea.
She cried out: ‘I just can’t bear it. My stomach seems

to churn over. . . .’
‘ Be quiet. I’ll go to our native Doctor Vadivelu and get
some medicine’. He started, putting on his upper cloth.
Murugayee laughed and said, ‘ Why don’t you keep quiet ?
People will laugh at us’.
‘ I can’t bear to see you in discomfort’.
‘Why should you see ? You can move away farther’.
With bubbling joy, Aandi reached the gate of the graveyard. It was then that he heard a minstrel in saffron-robes
who passed by singing that song in self-forgetting bliss :
In the temple-garden
there was once a rotter
Who for ten long months
was after the Potter.
Brought he home a pitcher
the vain vagrant bloke

in

revulsion. The abominable creature crawled and got on to
my hand and turned yellow. No, not yellow but golden
and sparkling. “ Eat me .up, eat me up please”, it said ’.
‘ Then ? ’
‘As it spoke, it began to munch my hand. I lost my
nerve and became hysterical. “ Look at this little insect.
What insolence that it should dare to ask me to eat it up ”.
Is it because it is deﬁnite I won’t ‘2. .’
Her face went red.
. ‘Itook the insect with two ﬁngers, put it in my mouth,
crunched it to bits and. . . .’
She had- not ﬁnished. With a revulsion that came
thundering from within, she began to retch. Her head grew
leaden, her breath faltered and her eyes went red.
‘ 0 dear, the insect keeps crawling about in my stomach ’.
She retched again. She held her stomach and sat down,
her head bent. Saliva overﬂowed from her mouth.
.
‘ Listen, there is an insect in my stomach ’.
In a ﬂash, Aandi understood. A thrill of exhilaration
coursed through his veins. Somethinghe had waited for,
ﬁfteen long years, something he had longed for so often and
been denied so long! And now after he had resigned
himself to accept that it was not to be. . . .
She retched again.

Danced with it like mad
till alas it broke!

Aandi stood and listened to the song absorbed, overﬂowing with a joy he had not known before. The minstrel
sang the same lines again and again. Every word that came
on a dancing beat took root in Aandi’s heart. His lips
began to hum:
In the temple-garden _
there was once a rotter. . . .
The grave-yard that served to bury thousands of corpses
soon saw the birth of a new life. Aandi was blessed with a
son. His joy knew no bounds. All his waking moments,
he took his darling child and danced.
The hands with which he hugged his child to his bosom
continued to dig graves for the children of others. Like a
little boy manuring a rose-plant, he would dig the graves
with the song on his lips. . He never understood the grief of
bereaved parents.
How was he able to sing so heartlessly with alittle corpse
beside him, the father standing there trying in vain to control
the sobs that came bursting through ‘2 _ Was he human ?
People did not understand and thought him crazy.

The Grave—Digger

