The moment he ﬁnished his work, he would rush to his
hut, take his son in his arms and fondle him, dancmg merrily

around. Didn’t all his joy, his spirits, his song and his
merriment spring from Irulan?
Two years passed by.
In the grave-yard where ended abruptly the joys and
dreams of parents, in the life of Aandi who had forgotten
the certainty of death in his absorption with a new life in
his home.
what is there to say ? One day, Irulan died.
He had come after years of prayer and penance and despair,
after Aandi had given up hope of having a child to call his
own , he had come suddenly as if from the land of ObliVion,

‘My dearest, my darling child.. .’ The grave-yard resounded w1th Murugayee‘s heart-reading cries. She fell on
the ground and writhed. She held Aandi’s feet tight and
arrested his movement. There was a griefin his hand, grief
in his heart and grief personiﬁed at his feet.

The garden seemed to be gay that day. The trees and
plants were full of ﬂowers that had spilled all ever. Aandi
walked on carrying the dead weight of his dream.

cloth-cradle, his face buried in his knees.
at emptiness.

His eyes stared

The scenes that passed before them were a

mixture of what had been and what could never again
be.
Irulan, Irulan, Irulan all over.

How he went crawling to the fence! How, waking up
from his sleep, he jerked his head out of the cloth-cradle
and with a laughter that created dimples in his cheeks called
out Appa’! How he crawled behind Aandi’s feet as he
was watering the plants and thrilled him head to foot by a
sudden embrace With childish warmth ! How his tiny ﬁngers
danced around the plate of food and how he tried to enjoy
the little crumbs that stuck to them with noisy relish, laugh-

ter bursting out and his hands clapping !
Was it all a lie, a dream, an illusion, a madness or just
imagination? Aandi sat frozen like a statue, his mind a
blank. All the land over which Irulan had crawled, all the
things he had touched and played with and all the words he
had lisped made a thumping impact on his sense. But there,
inSide that hut lay the boy’s body, bloated, ﬂies crowding on
his mouth and eyes. On the forehead was a sandal-mark ;
from within the darkened mouth his young innocent teeth
sparkled out. And with his limbs stretched out, he was——
was he just in deep slumber ? No. He was dead. Murugayee
took the child’s hands and folded them one over the other.
She drove away the ﬂies and covered the body with a
piece of cloth.
At long last—there was such a thing as duty.
Hot tears pouring out from his reddened eyes, Aandi took

his towel and wound it round his head. He picked up the
shovel lying in the corner and ﬁxed it to his shoulder. He
rolled Irulan’s body in a cloth dipped in turmeric water,

held it close to his bosom and started to go.

was after the Potter.

Brought he home a pitcher
the vain vagrant bloke
Danced with it like mad
till alas it broke!
The voices, so many of them, rose, mingled and separated
and sounded in a crashing crescendo.
All the dead children, from the one that was ﬁrst to be

buried in the grave-yard to the one that was’ buried only
the previous day, rose exuberantly into life and danced

‘ I must dig a grave for Irulan under the Pannir tree.

It

will shower its fragrant ﬂowers on him all the year round ’
Aandi was sitting under the neem tree near the empty

In the temple-garden
there was once a rotter
Who for ten long months

What could he

do? He stood transﬁxed. Could the shovel he carried on
his shoulder dig a grave for all griefs?
One hand hugged the child; the other held the shovel
tight. ‘Don’t cry, Murugayee’, he said, and burst into
tears as he said so. She wailed louder. Aandi extricated
himself from her grip and waked on. All these years he
had known only the corpses, not the grief that went with
them. It was too much to bear.

and. after laughing and playing and ﬁlling Aandi‘s heart

with dreams. he passed away as suddenly injust two days of
illness In the grave-yard which had hardened and tWisted
itself in mounds and lumps, witnessmg the grief of thousands of bereaved parents, Murugayee’s heart-breaking
lament rent the air.

He looked at Aandi and sang, his hands clapping rhythmically:

He laid his son's body on the ground. He took out the
shovel from his shoulder and stood erect like a tree. His
eyes stared at the empty sky. The staring eyes turned red,
and tears ﬂowed out. His lips and nostrils tWitched with
unbearable agony. There was a sense of suffocation in his

round him singing in unison in their lisping voices, clapping hands merrily. Fetterless and free they danced in the
wonderland of space in a mad gyrating frenzy.

Aandi forgot himself and laughed outright.
opened and the song took wings :
In the temple-garden
there was once a rotter.

heart.

He hardened himself and lifted the shovel. His hands
trembled, his feet faltered. For along time he stared at
his darling son’s face, the face he would never see again.
Beads of perspiration lined up on his forehead. He lifted
the shovel again. Legs stretched apart, eyes closed, he
planted the shovel ﬁrmly on the earth.
In the temple-garden
there was once a rotter.

That song now ? He had not sung it. Who was it who
sang it then ? He lifted the shovel once again and let it
fall forcefully on the earth.
In the temple-garden,
there was once a rotter,

In that suﬁ'ocating ocean-like inﬁnity of children, Aandi
ran to trace his son and hold him to his bosom.

ched for him but could not ﬁnd him.

Another voice :

All the children

In the surging swarming multitude of children where
there was no room for differences of mine and his and yours,
how could he ﬁnd and identify Irulan ?
Aandi was in agony. It was unbearable.
Murgayee was aghast when she found Aandi lying under
the tree near his son’s corpse, his face buried into the sand.
She turned him over, put his head on her lap and shrieked
in grief and terror. He slowly opened his eyes. Thank
He was not dead.

Even now, Aandi lives in the grave-yard, but he doesn’t
sing any more. Whenever he sees a corpse that comes there,

he bursts out weeping.

there was once a rotter.

universal grief.
crazy.

Who for ten long months
was after the Potter.

He sear-

He searched again

and again but Irulan could not be traced.
looked alike.

God, he was alive.

The same voice again. ‘ Who is it?’
In the temple-garden

His lips

He has become a soulful image of

But the people continue to consider him
JAYAKANTAN.

‘ My god ! NowI understand ’
away and looked back.

Aandi threw the shovel

Like Lord Narasimha bursting out of pillar, a

little

handsome boy came out, breaking open solid earth from
inside a grave.
13

