Anaturalist! what does that convey to you ? an old man
peering round the forests looking for exotic butterﬂies ?
but it also could be YOU ............ possibly.
1 have been conﬁned to this city all my life, (except during
the holidays when I’m conﬁned to another city !) so I grew

a mysterious cue as to where the ocean was.

up with the sophism of the city. I haven’t seen a natural

back to her haven—the vast ocean, not to be seen again,

forest nor a wild animal in its natural surroundings! Of
course I read about the dwindling number of tigers, rhinos,
etc—sitting in the college canteen! We argued, we shouted,
we whispered, but we did nothing. It didn't touch me. It
didn‘t move me.

till maybe, the next season.

One not so sunny day, I happened to drop in at the.
Snake Farm, Guindy. The topic of the day was—turtles.
There were a couple of turtle hatchlings swimming in the
tank. Every few minutes they bumped against the glass.
Had they opened their eyes ? Were the shells hard already?
How old were they ? These and many other questions whirled around my mind.‘ I decided to ﬁnd out for myself.
A few people from the Snake Farm were going to observe

the turtles the next day. -I said I would join them too.
That was the beginning!

A Naturalist

So the next day, four of us ventured out from the Snake
Farm at 6 pm. We took a bus and got down at Tiruvanmiyur. We headed towards the sea and started walking along
the shore. As we were walking, the miraculous story of the
sea turtles was related by the ‘ enlightened one’ among us.
That day unfortunately we did not see a single turtle. We
saw only some broken shells—the only remains the dogs had
left behind, after eating the eggs. Though we did not see
any turtles we were not dissappointed—the somniferous
ocean mysterious beneath the dark sky enchanted us in its
own way.
The next weekend, undaunted, we drove down to Tiruvan-

miyur. We walked and walked but did not see anyturtles.

WANTED
Balances to weigh turtles and other technological aids to conservation. Visit Snake
Park for details.

14

.After she finished, she covered the nest with her hind
ﬂippers, patting the earth by lifting her body and falling
back With great thumps (probably to make it difﬁcult for
predators to dig out the eggs) she ﬂipped sand about for a

It was when we were walking back slowly that we spied one,
ﬂipping out sand. It was digging a hole. Thnlled, we
ﬂopped down next to it. She was obltvrous to_ the entire
world! She made her nest taking into consideration factors
such as temperature, humidity, depth, to mention a few.
She was a true architect. She started laying her eggs.——l,_2,3.
and even 4 at a time. They were the size and shape of pingpong balls. As she was laying she sighed now_ and then,
(perhaps with exhaustion or even ecstasy!) she laid the usual
120, eggs a number which is variable, but not by much.
This took her about ten minutes.

long time, to level it and make a false nest.

Then she got

She crawled

This took us back a million years or more. What do
you say? Don’t say anything! Do something. Youngsters
and. students can do even better than the naturalists of the
older generation; and we sure do need our latent talents
unearthed.

LET US BE AWARE!
PEACE
AMU & VALLI.‘

