It gives me great pleasure to be with you today to participate in the annual convocation of your Institute. The IITs
have rightly earned a reputation as centres of excellence in
higher technical education in India. I am conﬁdent that
IIT Kanpur, and its sister lITs will continue to successfully fulﬁl their role in moulding technological skills of a
high order, in disseminating advanced technical education.
and in forging innovative links with Indian industry through
research. development and, above all, successful technology
transfer.
.It_is by establishing a base for technological competence
Within the country, rather than by importing technology, that
we can fulﬁl the requirements of a truly industrialised state.
It is here that the [US have an important role to play. The
efforts of this Institute in providing technical education of a
high calibre can bear fruit only in the capabilities, commitment and performance of its erstwhile students. Therefore,
while congratulating the graduating class of 1973 and the
Winners of special awards today, I would like to suggest
that you are tomorrow’s agents of change and transformation. You bear a heavy responsibility on your young
shoulders in executing the tasks that the Institute has trained
you in, for the country that has invested in you, the society
that has placed so much conﬁdence and trust in you, and
in what your own efforts have equipped you for.
Optimal Science Policy
The vital role of science and technology in propelling a
developing economy like ours to the ‘ take-oft" stage, needs
no emphasis.

Indeed,

economists consider

science

and

technology as the prime movers of development in any
eCOnOmy. While science and technology by themselves are
governed by universal principles, science policy, or the mode
of application of science and technology, encompasses
several feasible. and some divergent, approaches. The
optimal science policy for any country would obviously be
the one that is attuned to the nature and needs of its socioeconomic milieu. Recognising this uniqueness of science
policy, the National Committee on Science and Technology
has formulated a detailed scientiﬁc and technological plan
which forms part of our ﬁfth plan. The guiding principle in
planning for several R & D projects in this plan has been
the relevance and appropriateness of the output of knowledge, skills, techniques, processes and equipment of these
projects to the needs of the country. The search for
‘relevance’ has thus been very dominant in our science
policy. I would like to spend some time on this theme of
‘ relevance ’.
The choice of R & D projects critically depends on the
need for their outcomes. A predominant goal of our
national plans has been to improve the standard of living of
the masses below the poverty line. Many R & D projects
which would provide the technological content of various
agricultural, industrial and health programmes are being
formulated by our science planners.

Planning for science and technology is intimately connected With planning for the output of goods and services.
Just as the use of luxury products and products which do not
utilise local resources are being discouraged by our Govern-

The Search for

Relevance in Indian
Science and

Technology
Convocation Address by
’Dr. Hom. SETHNA at I. I. T., Kanpur, 1973

ment,

research and development associated with

such

products and services must also be discouraged.
.Similarly, in the ﬁeld of education the main role of technical institutions is to develop knowledge and skills which
are most appropriate to our needs. While a few may be
trained in the frontiers of knowledge not necessarily related to
our present needs, the majority of the students ought to be .
trained in areas where they can apply their knowledge and
skills for the development of the economy. Unfortunately,
in many of our technical institutions, training is imparted in
technologies which may be too sophisticated for existing or
foreseeable needs of the industry. As a result, many of the
students ﬁnd it frustrating when they start work after graduation. Most of our educational programmes lay emphasis
on the acquisition of information or ‘rote’ skills, but not
skills for innovation.
Many of the bright students from IITs go abroad as they
perhaps ﬁnd that a great deal of their learning is more
relevant to the needs of advanced economies. I understand
that the ‘ brain-drain ’ of some of our best talent continues
to be acute even now. Such efﬂux of some of our best trained manpower is as undesirable as the wholesale import of

foreign technology. Institutions like the HTS should give
Such emphasis on relevance obviously implies that there
cannot be any ‘ science for the sake of science’ except in
a few chosen areas of basic research where the criterion of
relevance is not applicable. Hence. nearly 80"8500 of our
R & D efforts would have to be governed by the criterion of
relevance. This means that projects cannot be chosen merely
because similar projects are being pursued elsewhere, or
because of the high prestige of these projects in the professional scientiﬁc world, or the publishability of the outcomes of these projects in scientiﬁc journals.
This brings us to the concept of ‘ appropriate technology ’.
Appropriate technology, according to me, means technology
appropriate to our socio-economic conditions: technology
that can produce the needed goods and services most
optimally; technology that can utilise our own natural and
human resources effectively and technology that can become
a part of the social milieu. Such technology may be mundane
or advanced but its choice is related to its relevance. For
example, our society needs both ‘gobar-gas’ plants and
nuclear reactors to meet its diverse energy needs. Both these
technologies are relevant for our country. Gobar-Gas
plants use a locally and plentifully available resource to
generate low-level energy for speciﬁc applications in rural

areas.

Atomic power plants are required for generating

base-load power for large electrical grids. Such co-existence
of advanced and traditional technologies are pO'SSlble in
several ﬁelds and our concern ought to be With their
relevance alone.

attenti0n to this aspect while developing their educational
strategies. Apart from appropriate restructuring of coursecontent and training methodologies, one way of achieving
such relevance in the ﬁeld of technical education would be to
integrate academic learning with work experience. Sandwich
courses, summer schools and other continuing education
programmes come to my mind as examples.
In the ﬁeld of technical education, the concept of ‘relevance ’ assumes another important dimension. The explosion
of knowledge in many areas is so great that differentiation
and specialisation has become the order of the day.
Several ﬁelds which did not even exist 5-10 years back
are recognised disciplines in their own right now. For
example, Cryogenics, Micro-electronics, Laser technology,
Tero-technology, Tribology, Membranology, Plasma technology and Ecology can be cited as some of the new disciplines that require specialised knowledge and_skills. Such
greatly enhanced specialisation and diﬁ‘erentiation has how-

ever proved inadequate for the solution .of interface problems. These problems require interdisciplinary approaches
for their solutions. This need is partly. reﬂected in the
simultaneous development that is taking place: the emer-

gence of inter-disciplinary ﬁelds: . These _ ﬁelds require
For
knowledge in two or more traditional disciplines.
example: Medical Electronics, Envuonmental Seiences and

Biomedical Engineering are ﬁelds in which one requires
knowledge in more than one traditional discipline. Another
parallel development is the grown: emphaSis on overall
15

