K

.

integrative disciplines like Systems Engineering and Operations Research. Considerable work has been done in these
ﬁelds in the recent past and these have applications in
many areas of science and technology and even in business
and administration.
Are our educational systems responsive to these developments? It seems to me that they are not. While postgraduate education today reﬂects to some extent these trends
towards diﬂ‘erentiation and integration, undergradute education

in many technical institutions continues to be tradi-

tional and hidebound. The traditional compartmentalisation
that exists in technical institutions has hindered the development of programmes which are responsive to these new
developments. New programmes are conceived as extensions of one traditional discipline or another, and if they
cannot be so conceived,

the

abSence of a well-deﬁned

departmental slot for them is allowed to inhibit their introduction and development, thus losing sight of their relevance.
In the next ten years or so, there is an urgent need to
restructure our courses consistent with these new develop-

ments in knowledge and changing industrial needs. Partial
specialisation at the undergraduate level, inter-disciplinary
programmes and programmes in integrative disciplines will
be necessary to meet the diverse needs of future technical education. An outstanding example of an inter-disciplinary programme in India is the School of Automation
at the Indian Institute of Science. I do hope that the
HTS develop such ‘relevant’ programmes in the next few
years rather than continuing with the old pattern of
education.

The Question of Management
‘ Relevance ’ in educational institutions has another aspect
which I would like to touch upon brieﬂy. Merely choosing
relevant educational programmes is not sufﬁcient. The
management system of technical institutions like yours should
also be ‘ relevant ’. An obsolete management system based on
the traditional concept of ‘ administration ’ in which deputationists have developed administrative procedures very similar
to those of government departments, would not be relevant at
all. Management of educational institutions in which innovation and creativity are the most important factors need adap—
tive and responsive systems and procedures. It seems to me
that management systems of our technical institutes are
not so innovative as they do not seem to have beneﬁted
from recent developments in pedagogical methods and
techniques and educational evaluation. We come across
cases where institutes which are imparting training in the
frontiers of technology have rather underdeveloped systems
of management to handle their problems in industrial
relations. Similarly, in the areas of placement, procurement and accounting, the institutes do not have well developed management systems. I would urge that the institutes

16

should develop more relevant and appropriate management

should expand them to a much larger extent. The Institutes

systems consistent With the complex needs of such large
educational institutions.

of Management have adapted this principle admirably in the
ﬁeld of management and the desirable impact of consultancy
on the quality of faulty and the relevance of academic programmes IS already evident.

Meaningful Education
I would like to cite an example where an academic
institution has innovated a major form of technology
transfer. You may be familiar with the story of the MIT and
the ‘ Route 128 ’ in Boston. Along this route several
industries have come up using the knowhow developed at
the MIT laboratories. These industries have been largely
set up by the professors and students of MIT. Very close
links for practical training, design, experimentation and
production exist between the MIT and industries located on
this route. The relevance of education at MIT to the
future careers of students has become much more meaningful by the development of this technological estate in Route ,
128. I foresee a great opportunity of developing such technological estates or Industrial Parks around the HTS. The
impact of these parks on the education of the students
would be very profound and meaningful and they would
olpen up new and exciting career opportunities for many of
t em.

‘Technology must be
Attuned to the
Social Milieu of the Country’
The immense academic resources of the HTS and the
excellent laboratory, workshop and testing facilities that
they have, can be instrumental in developing such parks.
Such a measure would also attract some of the best faculty
members to the institute as it provides them opportunities
for experimentation and integration of knowledge with
experience.
Another area in which the HTS can contribute to the
effective adaptation of technology is the provision of technical consultancy services to industry. Experience elsewhere
has proven that such consaltancy utilises existing faculty
more productively, aids quality improvement in industries
and brings about a very discernible improvement in the
content and quality of academic programmes in technical
education. While the HTS have started offering such consultancy services on a limited scale, I would urge that they

Out of the thousands of the engineers produced
in this country, not one has done a thing to
improve the bullock cart.

I have talked a great deal on relevance in R& D and
technical education. I would like to share some of my views
about ‘relevance ’ in careers. Some of you have secured
Jobs in industry while some others would be going abroad
to pursue higher studies. Quite a few may be keeping their
options open, undecided abOut the direction to take.
Unfortunately, many students do not have a clear idea
about their career development and take up higher studies
even though they may not have the aptitude. I would like
to mention to you a few career opportunities that are
emerging in this" country.
The Government of India is very keen to promote entrev
preneurship amongst our young engineers. Numerous
facrlities from small scale industry service institutes, ﬁnan—
013.1. institutions, industrial development corporations and
national laboratories'are available for young technologists
to start small industries even though they do not have
resources of their own. Some of the IIT graduates have
successfully started such small industries. This needs to
happen on a much larger scale. We, in the Department of
Atomic Energy, are very keen to transfer some of our
spin-off knowhow to young graduates like you who can
set up industries. Our department would like to encourage
any co-operative ventures from IIT graduates for utilising
our knowhow. Such innovative entrepreneurship can
greatly contribute to the rapid industrial development of
the country.
Career Mobility
Many of us think that a career means working in a
particular institution or a particular type of job for 30-35
years. While this concept might have been true in the past
it is not true any more. Research on the careers of scientiﬁc
and technological personnel has proved beyond doubt that
successful careers are built around experiences in multiple
roles and functions. The Research Scientist today may
become a Production Engineer after 5 years and General
Manager after 15 years. In the Atomic Energy programme,
we have followed this concept of career mobility very
successfully. Many of our plant managers were once research scientists. Such mobility is vital for a satisfying
and meaningful caree . Your ﬁrst job may be at
a research laboratory, educational institute, industry or
a Government organisation. But you must plan to get
diverse experiences throughout your career. I would urge
that many of you consider becoming entrepreneurs. The
richness of experience in being an entrepreneur is very
unique and I invite you to this great experience at least
once during your career.

