rein, and not let ourselves go to excess in this, that, or the

Mag/My
Of all dull places to stay in, Madras is far and away the
dullest. There is nothing here to see or do. A 200 that
has nothing to offer the visitor, except its owu presumption
in calling itself one; empty glass tanks passing themselves
oﬁ‘ as an aquarium ; very modern (and very vulgar) cinemahalls showing the latest tear-jerker, with the reigning
matinee-idol cast all at once as the hero. the heroine, the

villain, the villainess, the old grandmother, and the familydog : such are the joys of Madras.
1 would long since have ﬂed the city for the inner Hebrides, or outer Mongolia, or some such more interesting
place, had I not been a creature that does not ask much of
life, and is prepared to put up with, and forego, a great

deal, if some small outlet, some tiny relief-valve, is allowed it. Mine in this city is a peaceful, slightly seedy
Chinese restaurant run by Old Father Time and his
brother, who, having seen the ups and downs of a million
years, think it no great matter to keep a customer waiting
an hour for his meal. The overdone fawning politeness
increasing in degree with the estimated wealth and social
standing of the customer, the scraping and bowing that
characterizes other restaurants : all this is noticeably absent
here. The MO ancients are rude to pauper and prince alike.
They are too high-souled to make concessions merely to
attract more money : the stairs are a death-trap, the furniture is rickety, and there are grease-spots on the tablecloths.
For all these reasons I rather like the place. Besides,
the venerable ones are artists of a sort. Beneath the gnarled, time-worn exteriors lurk poets, and their cooking is

their aﬂirmative poem to life. So I go to them whenever I
have money to squander on eating out; a condition thatI
unfortunately do not ﬁnd myself frequently in. teachers
being next of kin to the proverbial church-mouse.
For the rest, even if there is not much else in Madras,
at least a few book-stalls and libraries exist. And so one
takes to books, and, perhaps even without one’s being aware
of it, crosses sooner or later the line dividing those who read
selectively and with a speciﬁc purpose, from those to whom
reading and books have become an addiction, an end in
themselves.
One enc0unters the type only too frequently. On weekends and holidays, when it has time and to spare, it feels
miserable and just does not know what to do with itself if it
is deprived of reading matter. It reads in buses, it reads on
trains, it reads in the morning, it reads in the evening: in
short, it reads.
_
———One goes from cradle to grave subjected unceasmgly
to exhortations to temperance and proportion, and .warnings against excess of every sort. All the world and hlS wrfe

make it their business to counsel us to hold ourselves in

other thing. No one, however, says anything about reading
carried to the point where, far from being a means to some
worthwhile end, it becomes an end in itself, and the person
concerned an addict, helplessly, hopelessly dependent on
printed matter, squandering his time always reading about
life without ever actually getting down to living it.
That such a state is a distortion of the will of Allah, not
what he intended us to be, does not need much elaboration.

We are supposed to stand with both feet planted ﬁrmly in
the midst of life, having recourse to books only in so far as
they are necessary to help us understand what we observe
and experience. Standing on the side-lines and reading,
eternally reading about the game, cannot and should not be
substituted for actually playing it.
——We are all of us, however, fearfully cracked about the
head, all of us without exception addicts to one form of
insanity or the other. Some sing to the Lord at three in
the morning, certain others cannot be deﬂected from eternally
trying to explain away the whole marvellous universe using
inadequate forms of rationalism; there are those who babble

the latest cricket or hockey or football scores at you endlessly, and still others who hold forth, till the milkman comes
in, (1);] the political State of the country, or the end of the
wor .
No, there is no getting away from it. March Hare territory,
Mad Hatter country, is where we humans live. Granting
which, we would have to admit that the conﬁrmed and h0peless book-addict is no madder than the rest of us, and certainly a lot less trying, since he at least is not a close range,
hard breathing bore.
——1 seem to have strayed magniﬁcently: a tendency of
mine, which I do not seem able to shake off, to get to
Mylapore by way of Madagascar and Mauritius. All I
wanted to say was that I have been reading a great deal
of late. Among other things, different biographies of the
Queen of Scots.
Confound the woman! Even across four centuries of
time she exercises a spell, although I do not see why. All
she seems to have done is to engineer the speedy departure,
out of this world, of a thoroughly objectionable husband.
After which she fell into the hands of her cousin .of
England, who had her beheaded after a very long period
of imprisonment.
And now, centuries later, for all her qualities of statesmanship, her clear-thinking head, her concern for England’s
greatness, mention of Elizabeth fails to stir one, whereas

the Scottish Queen, who was none of these things, who was
not much more than a passionate woman dogged by misfortune, continues to ﬁre the imagination. Lost causes and
doomed persons appeal to the romantic in us. For solid

Pigg/edy

achﬁfvgﬁlenibroughthinto being by careful planning, and farsrg e
1n mg, we aveanod of reco nitio
but it fails to touch our hearts.
g
n and approval,
. -——Writing about historical personages, who lived centuries earlier, must be afascinating job. All that the historical biographer has to go upon are a few paintings of his
subject, a few letters written to, or by, him or her, a few

State .doouments surviving from the era that the person in
questlon helped to shape, at best perhaps a description of
the subject written by a perceptive and thoughtful contemporary. From such inadequate material the biographer
must create for his readers a credible ﬂesh and blood person, and in addition must reproduce with ﬁdelity the atmosphere of the era in question, so that history, from being a dull

list of dates and events, comes alive, and we begin to understand, from an understanding of the personalities of the
leading ﬁgures of the time, why the history of that period
took the particular course that it did.
When writing about a person who lived centuries earlier
the biographer can never really hope to portray his subject
as he, or she, really was. The truth about a person who
does not keep an extensive, and honest, written record about
himself and his doings, and who is also not written about
in any great depth by his contemporaries, is lost beyond recall with his death and with the passing on of his circle of
intimates. Even the best of biographers can therefore only
come up with an informed guess. And that is why I ﬁnd
the biographies of historical personages so fascinating. If
one reads a sufﬁcient number of writers dealing with the
same individual, one gets an overall picture of the person
which is fairly close to the truth. In addition one learns a
good deal about the writers themselves. Where the available
facts are scanty, inadequate, one has to guess intelligently at
several points. One’s guesses may be oﬁ‘ the mark and
throw no real light on the person one is writing about, but

from them any observant reader, who is interested in a
detective-game of his own, can form a shrewd estimate of
one’s own strengths, weaknesses and prejudices.
——Shoes and ships and sealing-wax seems to be what
this essay is about. It has no central theme, no main idea
which has been gone into in all its aspects. That there
should be a theme of sorts, forming, if one wishes to put
it that way, the backbone of the essay, is the contention of
one school of thought. Very possibly it is right. However,
we also serve: we who set out with no particular idea-in
our heads, turning off here, cutting across there as the whim
takes us, hurrying past a ﬁne-boned horse, halting a while
by a donkey. We are very restful people to be with. We
do not tax our readers. Our objective, and it IS a very
modest one really, is to be a sort of gentle transport-semee,
to carry our readers from the realm of wakefulness to
that of sleep after the hard day’s idleness (or work. Except
that I do not think anyone in this country works).
ANTHONY REDDY

l7

