STATE OF THE MESS IN IIT
This article is being written with a view to giving information to the students about thc functioning .of our messes
and the problems involved. In the context of the rising

afford more taxes. But we can always explore alternative
ways of doing good for the staff, such as the possibility of
building them lodgings, etc. A number of committees are

prices, mess bills have risen to scaring heights and many

working on this such as the leave-rules committee, rationalisation committee, and service rules committee. The

students are really beginning to feel the pinch of the bills.
Since HT is a world in itself little or no thought is given to
the fact that after all we are not cut off from the rest of the
world and what is happening outside affects us also. It
should be noted that there have been food riots in Gujarat,
strikes all over India and a general scarcity of food everywhere. These incidents have gained momentum in India and
are responsible for our high mess bills ; not ‘ organisational
inability ’ as many think.
The Strike and its Results

The strike came all of a sudden ; we knew it was coming,
but did not expect it so suddenly. Our mess staff also
joined the strike and we were left in the lurch. Why did
we not close down and leave for home? Why did we stay
behind and endure all this? Were we not stupid? The
answer is a ﬂat NO. BECAUSE a lot was at stake for us.
(a) We wanted to show that we cannot be cowed down by

Leave Rules Committee has already submitted its recommendations and these are being implemented. Efforts are being
made to see what best can be done. But no miracles can be-

performed and the solution of these problems may take
their own time.
Preparation of Mess Bills
A deposit of Rs. 175/- is being collected from every
student when he joins the institute. Assuming that there
are about 180 students in a Hostel, the hostel will have
about Rs. 31,000/-.

Total expense — Extras

threats ; (b) We did not want to lose precious time; (c) And

last but not least we wanted to show that we are a body
worthy of being respected. And we have come out in ﬂying
colours in this respect.
‘The mess staff have come under hostel jurisdiction.
It would be well to remember that the new authority we
have carries with it the corresponding responsibility for the
welfare of those who work for us, which means that we
must at least now start to think and feel what it is to work
a long routine day, to share a room with many others at
the end of it, to continue the same thing for .years, with

This will be the running account of the.

hostel. This is the money used for making purchases for
the mess. This amount is refundable at the end of the
course. At the end of the month the mess bills are issued
to the students. The daily rate is calculated as

Total No. of Man D731?
If one person eats for one day, it is considered a ‘Man
Day ’. This daily rate is multiplied by the number of man

(all Wardens, Steering Committee, General Secretaries, and

Mess Secretaries) we have decided that wherever possible we
shall not employ any fresh mess staff. The existing staff
beingquite large in number, we shall transfer them to other
Hostels where there is a vacancy, or to permanent
institute posts, wherever possible. But asking the students
to pay more is ruled out. The students just cannot
18

Over and above this, whatever is

needed is bought in the open market at exorbitant
rates. .Such is the case with wheat, the amount supplied on
the ration card by the Civil Supplies Department of the
Tamilnadu Government is only 50 kg. per hostel per month ;

a ridiculously low quota considering our needs. Therefore
most of the wheat is obtained from the open market at nearly
double the price. In spite of such high prices, many dealers
are not in a position to supply good quality wheat due to
restrictions imposed by the Government. Hence we cannot
afford to be choosy about the quality of wheat and
we have to make the best of what is available. ‘ A half
loaf is better than no bread ”. Efforts are being made to
contact higher Government authorities to get more wheat
sanctioned on the ration card.
Central Supplies is housed in two rooms of Cauvery
Hostel! There is no godown or room to store any of the
food items. So it is absolutely essential to distribute all items
on the very same day. Hence necessary arrangements should
be made to receive these items as soon as they arrive. The
CSU has a limited number of supervisory staff and of delivery boys. The strength is not adequate to meet the needs
of all hostels and residents of the campus.

Financial Position of the CSU

days of a particular student, i.e. the number of days he

takes food, and this becomes his basic. It must be noted that
the mess bill is the most important thing in the functioning
of the messes. Prompt preparation of mess bills and
prompt payment of the bills can do marvellous things to
our daily rate. How exactly this is so will be explained
presently.

little hope of saving much, of earning more, of learning

something new. It would be a sad silent commentary on
the level of our awareness (and incidentally on the rele~
vance of the applicability of our courses in psychology
and management) if we do not consider what we can do to
make things better’. From the Hostel management’s side

It should be noted that each hostel gets only 200 kg. of
sugar at the ration rate.

The Central Supplies

The Central Supplies has been functioning with the
purpose of supplying essential articles to _all hostels. This
takes care of supplying rice, sugar, maida. rawa, bengal
gram dhal and milk. Only a few items like sUgar,
maida, rawa, atta, and wheat are procured at the
controlled rate on the ration card issued to all hostels.
Items like

raw rice,

boiled rice, wheat,

and_sugar are

procured from the open market at the exrsting market
rate.

To start with, the CSU received a deposit of Rs. 35,000/from all the hostels, and about Rs. 20,000 from the residents. With this running capital, CSU has to meet all its
demands.

It is necessary that all bills given by CSU to the

various hostels be cleared immediately. But the hostels are
not in a position to pay oﬁ‘ the dues and as such the ﬁnancial position of the CSU becomes very difﬁcult. At present,
a sum to the tune of Rs. 80,000/- is locked up in the
hostels. At one stage dues to the CSU reached 1.5 lakhs.
This in turn is partly due to the irregular payment of
monthly bills by the students, the inordinate delay in calculating the daily rate at the hostel level, and the undue delay
at the Administration Block. Once these problems are
solved at least to a reasonable extent, the ﬁnancial position

of the CSU will certainly improve, so that the CSU can
cater to the needs of the various hostels in a better fashion;
that is, it can supply more items, which, purchased in bulk,
would certainly go a long way in reducing the mess rates.

