For solving any problem it is ﬁrst of all necessary to ﬁnd
out the cause. In this case the root cause is ﬁnance. If
this problem is solved, a major portion of our problem can
be considered to be successfully solved. It is for this reason
that the Hostel Management has resolved to impose a
uniform ﬁne policy for all the hostels. But just passing the
resolution IS not enough. The resolution should be implemented in the spirit in which it was made; which means
that we must see to it that mess bills are prepared promptly
and given to the Students: and that students should pay up
their dues as fast as possible. This calls for a spirit of
understanding and sacriﬁce on the part of all concerned.
Now that we have a Computer Centre, efforts are being
made to write a programme for the preparation of the daily
rate. Let us hope that this will make it possible to lessen
our problem.
Establishment Charges
This is used to pay the salary of the mess staff. The mess
staff are eligible for a salary of 13 months and a food allowance of Rs. 2/- during the holidays.
N-3 Rule

According to this rule, which is being implemented in all
hostels (for N greater than 3) if a person goes home forN
days he getsa rebate of N—3 days.

This rule has been

framed due to the following reasons as it has been in force
ever since the inception of IIT. (a) Our institute is a residential one and as such if rebate is given to those who go
home, then in thatcase those who remain behind will have
to shoulder the expense of feeding the mess staff. This
would not be fair to those who remain behind. (b) In
practice, the issues are not reduced in proportion to the
number of persons going home. If one-third of the students
go home on a Sunday, the expected reduction would be one
third in the issues. But this is never achievable in practice
even with the greatest care. There are certain censtant
factors which always involve the same expenditure. The
problem becomes worse if say only ten students go home
on some other day. Absolutely no reduction in issues may
be possible. Therefore in order to be absolutely fair, we
must take all these factors into consideration. This would
require avery huge computer programme for calculations.
(c) Giving rebate fully, would encourage students to go
away even on important Institute functions. Also it is
, practically very diﬁicult to keep track of students who
go home very often at intervals of one or two days.
For all these reasons the N—3 Rule seems to be a
balanced one.
H. R. PREMNATH
Co-ordinating Mess Secretary.

Letter to the Editor
‘ This is your mag. You have got to write’. One ﬁnds
such order-like appeals often occurring in Campastimes. In
the last issue there was even an incentive, to all hesitant
contributors, in the form of prize money.

Still there is a

dearth of articles. ‘How do you expect the Ed. Board to
bring out issues when no one is interested in writing for
the mag. What can we do ? (So say the Ed. Board members.)
But why? No one has so far ever paused and thought
‘ Why is it that guys do not write for the mag? ’.
The appointment of the Editor has been purely on the
basis of the number ’of articles he has written so far; one
who has been writing most regularly for Campastimes it
does not matter whether the said person’s articles are
appreciated or not he becomes the Editor; the person of
some ten lines back is nominated Editor and he in turn
chooses his friends to constitute the board. Thus the sole
criterion in appointing the Editor has been his literary
Oh Jesus ! How successful he has been in the past in ﬁlling
up columns in the mag and the constitution of the board
arbitrary.
People have got to realise that just because a person has

writing articles for the regular columns, looking after the art
section and people with imagination for the layout. The
Editor’s job would be to allocate work and get it done
and not do the whole thing himself. He should be able to
tap the right sources and bring out the talent. Thus the
mode of appointment of the Editor has to be seriously
looked into and this could possibly solve the problem of

guys not writing for the mag.

'

There is yet another point which has to be made clear.
This mag is by us and for us. Then why should there be an
illusion and a false prestige built up about the mag ? If the
quality of the articles received is poor, it only goes to show
that the literary level of the people has gone down. If that
is all that they can produce they have no reason or right
to say that the mag is sick or that the standard of the mag is
poor. It only reﬂects on your own capabilities. A mag
cannot and should not cater only to the needs of one
school of thought. It has to have articles of various types
and if one can ﬁnd one article tuned to his way of thinking
he should be happy. Beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder.
There is no use airing a lot of ideas—sit down, take up your

been able to ﬁll up columns in the mag, he needn’t be

pen and write an article—then you would realise how

Editor. You don’t need to sing well to be the Social Secretary, or win debates to be the Literary Secretary or paint well
to be the Fine Arts Secretary. Any ‘ top ’- .post in any

difﬁcult it is.

organization calls for ‘ORGANISATIONAL ABILITY
and DRIVE ’. But if you can write articles, sing well, win
debates, etc. they would only be ‘ ADDED ’ qualiﬁcations
and certainly not the primary criterion for holding any post.
The Editor should be one who moves and mixes well with
people of all sorts, always keeping an open mind, prepared
to listen to various people and give due consideration to all
their ideas and above all have organisational ability and
‘ DRIVE ’. 'To help him in the technical details the
Ed. Board comes in. The Ed, Board on the contrary should

But if you do get off your arse and write something it is
rejected as not being quality enough. They put in what
they like and when it does not measure up to their expectations, and their standards, you are coolly told that you have
not matured enough, that you have not evolved—this word,
I fear, has been grossly misused by many of our so-called
evolved types, if evolution is ‘ Beatles and pot ’ then thank
God I have not evolved. By Gad! the way they talk gives
me the creeps; I fear I have taken oﬁ‘ on a tangent, this
by the way is a useful qualiﬁcation in writing for
Campastimes.
S. SI'I'ARAMAN.

be constituted keeping in mind how good a persongs in

to this mag. The issues raised
It is good to ﬁnd someone oﬁ‘ering his ideas and trying to help give shape
of the beholder, the only
eyes
the
m
always
is
beauty
Since
here.
answered
be
to
are too wide and complex
.
possible reply is in the editorial
—ED. BOARD.

was
It is pleasant to record that the souvenir
or,
released at a function attended by the Govern
Mr. K. K. Shah. He generously donated a large
ne
sum for our pool. Our hearts reach out to everyo
who helped us.

'1ms(zz) 910a (1:) 919190 (61) s1001s(sr) Jalazrnpv (n)
momma. (st) mun (zt) swat) (II) anon (1.) mm (9)
SWIBIQ (s) suodsv (17) paﬁueqoxg (z) tardratul (I) union
.103

since (90 mo (989911011!!qu (vz) 9th (sz) Jams (oz)
[man (61) smxa (LI) poms (91) sawed (SI) amour) II)
own (01) smmddv (6) mu (8) momma (s) =mv

sNoun'ros aaomssoao
'

19

