2-

[MARCH,'· 1970

CAMPASTI'MES

EIGHTH C·ULTURAL WEEK
16th to 21st February
OPEN DEBATE
'Darned good response, four colleges from
outside. Standard of debate-as far as we
were able to make out, passable. Notable
'also for the smashing debut of IIT Kharag,pur. In fact they swiped the trophy·-in spite
of, or because of Ameetava Bannerji. Who
incidentally bagged the Fir~t. He was 9re
funny, but not very logical.· Audience, and
it appears the judges,. too, couldn't care less
Anand N. spoke of Love ~nd' God, things
which. ,,aren't. done out here. No wonder
they ,ga~e him tQ.e Second. Most guys say
lie had style. Number three·was a tie. Kepler
Krishnan ,and·, Mr P.' N •. Vijay~ Latter
quoted Plum at length, kept audience in good
hu,mour, right balance of substance and gas.
NoW we come to the Ladies. Ask Hyder for
details.,Dr (Mrs).Zuern's trophy for the Bes~
Lady, Speaker went to Mrs. V. Padmini of
"Cultural Academy •. Dry jokes, some sense,
right wing views. Miss Kap,adia (sister of
the famous Khushroo, no less ••) came second
shocked the hell out of Prof Dr M. V.
C. Shastri, by" saying that llT may not
exist. (Survival Problems?) Before we forget,
;Pcof. Robert. Hardgrave was the Chairman
for the debate.' And if you really want to
'know, the topic was < An Egalitarian Society
-is Impossible in Practice'. ~ite a mouth·
ful. But not sufficient reason to fcctl the
)In{ortunate Chief Guest in' Narmada.

GERMAN RECITATION

THE SCIENCE FAIR

It was a short, peppy affair. As soon as
Marchi managed to rope in enough guys for
an audience, the competitors were allowed to
rattle away. No booing, no shouting, no
interruptions. And then it was all over. While
the judges deliberated, we had the pleasure
of listening to a German hymn sung by
,Mrs -A. Ramachandran and a group of Mrs
Staffs. Mrs Kirmse is to be thanked for
this pleasure: she tal·ght them the song.
There was eil/., Latin song and a few other
bits before the judges came back. The
results:
First-V. T. Ramalingam, Ill'. MMB and
Loyola took second and third places respectively.

h in previous years, the SCIENCE FAIR
did not 'appear to be crowded though the
participants hopefully claim that the standard'
was much higher this time. The exhibits
centred round the Logical Truth Value Calculator built by Jacob Thomas and Mohanakrishnan. Other interesting models were
Batty'S tape-recorder, which"by the way, was
ditched of the second prize which we aU
hoped it would get. There was jl(so a collection of birds' eggs, a Static Inline mixer,
The !IT Ham Transmhter, which wasn't in
the right mood at the time of the fair, a small
cam with a large name, and of course with
the modest tag' for display only', the Area
Measurer built, as you all know, by Sri J01Seph
Thiskundiah and Herr Abdul Narayan
D'Souza.
.

Polite clapping. Another event completed
without a mishap. Harchi & Co. heaved a

sigh of relief.
MIOO.

and

-LOIU,

mE' OPEN

GROUP DISCUSSION

The third of the Literary events during the
-Week was the OGD. Harcharan v,elcomed
the participating colleges ,lith great cordiality
and stated the two important points the
leaders' of the teams had to bear in mind
(to these, he added three more).
wec. kicked off the discussion but didn't
live up to expectations as well as the crowd
lived up to its reputation. Law, talking
about the caste system, had a Jeel for the
subject and were informal. Howevel·, the
lack of sufficient substance saw them failing
to get through. The medicos of MMC got
c.onfused between Cupid and heart transplants and dished out a lopsided discussion.
Cultural Academy didn't provide much food
for thought! in spite of a ju.icy topic, their
n\l!ll9ur was ,;ery 'grassy', But. ther trie~,
something wh.tch could .not b~ sald of Presldency, who were far too frivolous. Stella
l\!Iar;s, setting o'!t to win their,way to a man's
heart through ht'S stomach, dld better-they
got in through his ears I A. C. Tech's performance. was poor by comparison: the
au.dience let off steam and prepared itself for
nrp KGP. In a way they alone know best,
the KGP men soon h'ld the a~dience in good
humour and were lustily applauded at the end
of their round. Engineering started by complaining about the topic, but soon the mob was
complaining about them. MCC lacked taste
in humour. IlTM, even with the advantage
of a promised patient hearing, gave a disappointing performance. This in spite of the
fact that they chose their topic first.
The judges commended the standard of
performance and had their usual little joke
about the nOl),-"participation of the home team
making their 'task easier (sic). We felt that
it was a straigh.t fight between Stella Maris
and lIT KGP, the order in which they
finished.

c

--H\'DER ALIKHAN

INTER..COLLEGIATE QUIZ
OhQuiz I
Wonderful Quiz
N. V. C. Swamy's Quiz
What Quiz ?
Boys participated,
Girls participated.
Audience participated,
M. V. C. Sastri participated.
Guess who won?
Law nearly 'Won,
The prize, Kharagpu1." won,
Actually We won.

P. S.! Me Harcharan Singh advises us that
Deepankar Shyam of IITK came :first,
M. S. Srinivasan finishing a close second.

The learned judges, after a whole day of
pondering, decided to give the prizes to
Mohan & Jadob's creation. Hood's Hover~
craft (also kno:wn as Vijay Sarihan's Topless
Mexican Sombrero with a built·in fan) and
Lakhsminarayanan's OsciHating Cylinder
Steam Engine, in that order. Judges' Prizes
went to Pandyan plus Pradeepa's pink-painted pump, and S. Thirugnanam & Co. 's
Transistor Characteristic Tracer.
As usual the departments had been raided;
this time it was a large set of psychology
tests, in various states of disrepair, put up to
amuse the public.
As usual, we'n end this with the
hope that next year's stuff will be better.
The chances of this being $0 don't appear so
remote this time since one hears that some
blokes have already started work; while at the
same time some more practical blokes have
started the job of gathering old models for redisplay.

V.C.

-NARwlADA DOGGEREL CLUB.

CONFESSIONS ON THE EVE OF THE DEPARTURE
OF A 0000 FRIEND
When we first came out from Germany, w.e had a few vague.
notions about India. The India we knew was mainly from books which
told us ab01.1t fakirs, snake charmers and things of the sort.' But Dr Klein
introduced us to a new India, not wholly primith'e, just different from
what the books said. We learnt a lot about Indian Culture, religion and
philosophy-a lot more than any Indian could have told us. In the
atmosphere of his house one can experience the essence of ancient,
medieval and modern India: the statuettes, the sculptures, and the books
leave an indelible impression.
The other world that Dr Klein introduced to us new German Professors, was the .world of Indian students. As people who come out to teach
youngsters who one day will run the affairs of the country, we needed to
know something about their attitude to life. In this respect, Dr Kkin's
rich experience as a Professor and as a Gymkhana ,President leaves him in
an unusually advantageous position to help us greenhorns. He was
exeedingly generous with his knowledge, expert advice and guidance. I
would not be far wrong in saying that, but for his' advice, we may have
found it difficult to adjust to our new surroundings. We, his German
colleagues, are sorry that he is leaving us but we c!.o hope that his departure does not mean the end of his association with us. As SecretaryGeneral of the Indo-German Society, his contacts with India will continue,
and hopefully, IlT will see more of him in the future.

-DR ZUERN.

