MARCH,:' 1970]

CAMPASTIMES

OF SHOES, AND SHIPS, AND
SEALIlvG WAX
After a long and boringly repetitious carCer
of being tosse.d out on mx ear into the nearest
pig-trough every time I tried to get into a
journal of repute, I now find myself faced
with a momentous dedsion: do l-give up the
uncqual struggle and die anonymous, or. do I
burst into the public eye even at the cost of
having to do so in Call1pastimes? At one
time a long while ago, I would have settled
for anonymity, finding sufficient reward in
the consciousness of having done the right
thing. But noW', having grown rather sordid,
I find attraction in the prospect of publicity,
however dubious the kind, whatever the price
that has to be paid for it. Besides. the Editor
has promised to publish anything from me.
I find that promise irresistible.
•.••. After all of which, there yet remains
the question of what to write about. Not
that there is any scarcity of subject matter.
For instance, 'wherever one goes on this
campus, one thing intrudes itself upon one
beyond the possibility of its going unnoticed:
the tightly trousered behind, and the no-less
imprisoned legs of all shapes and no shape.
Oh for the good old days of the forty-eight
inch trouser-leg! when everyman had about
him a touch of the grace and poetry of a
galleon in full sail, 2nd obscenities such as
leg sans calf were discreetly concealed. Not
that I ha,'e anything against tights. It is only
that to be able to wear them successfully, the
wearer hus to be a Greek God. He usuallv is
not.
. •
Our desire for the changed look appears to
have stopped with our having imprisoned
ourselves from the waist down. Why have
We not gone further? Why, one wonders, arc
there no bristling pirate moustachios, no long,
long beards, no proud lioll-manes? One sees
none of these. The start, yes, in a few
individuals, but even these look shame-falSed
and seem to lack assurance. The disease does
not appear likely to spread. Which is rather
a pity, I think. Smooth shaved faces, closecropped heads, to east, to west, north and
south, all alike and in limitless numbers. How
appallingly dull I
Equally dull are the endless 'Ane Yars •
that assail one's ears everywhere.
Rather
amusing, too, C We will be different. we will
not be conformists.'
So, it is away with one
form of conformity, and on with another. All
of which only goes to show that the human
animal is endlessly the same: it runs
with the herd.
But where originality does exist, even if
only in some small way, it has to be paid
tribute, and so 1 salute those persons whose
calls for 'sheet' and 'slice' (in the eXdmination
hall and in the mess) are a source of
much edification. No twenty-one gun accolades, however. for those whose literary efforts
grace the desks in all our classrooms. r grant
the need for the writing. One has to do
somothi'lg to retain one's sanity when the
windbag on the dais is more than usually dull.
But these four-lettered words are pedestrian,
run-of-the-mill, old-hat. We have I(nown all
of them since kindergarten. They are inane,
they are desperately, indescribably boring.
Arise, go out, and acquire some new expletives because obscenity, to be re\varding, has to
be new, has always to be dch. and strange and
terrifying.
. • . • Life this side of the fence'" is no less
amusing. It is one gay carnival aU the time.
Here it is the paper-publishing rat-race, with
people rushing ill joyous abandon to commit
indiscretions of various sorts finally and
irrevocably to pdnt. leaving the morrow. with
the regrets which it usually brings, to take care
of itself. Here it is the absorbing business of
building elaborate facades of words to keep
even the bright ones in one's ctass from
finding one out, which, if permitted to
happen, would make life impossible thereafter•.
The circus cannot go 011 if the audience turns
sceptic.

Here it is one frantic whirl of grinding out
attendance sheets, question papers, and marks
lists. Here it is one desperate ever continuing effort, trying to figure out what they mean
in the deluge of papers they rain upon us
endlessly, those gentleman of the third estate,
who live in the Palace of the Elephants.
Here it is futile conferences one after another.
Peace and tranquility are as hard to come
by here as they arc on the other side.
When aU has been said and done, everything has been taken Care of, and it should be
peace, peace and peace, the trumpets blare,
the drums roll, and enter On stage the VIP.
It would be nice to think that the treatment
he receives stems from pure goodness of heart
on our part. It would be nice to think that
except that one knows with certainty that
kindness of disposition has little to do with it.
It is more a sordid business of knowing where
one's butter comes from, and having on hand
ample stores of bread that need the butter.
At any rate, the VIP's pour in in a never
ending stream. Some of them come, no
doubt. out of genuine interest, the rest
probably because there is nothing else to see
in Madras, the zoo being moribund. I love
the local species, anyway. It is perfectly
lovely to get next to it (one way or another)
and figure in the pictures that grace our dailies
the next day.
But it is war. and to the death, against the
exotic variety. Because it is unfamiliar and
cannot be easily spotted in the midst of the
army that usually surrounds it, of chauffeurs,
butlers and secretaries, and other lovely
beings you wouldn't be caught dead with,
but whom you cannot distinguish because of
the democratic effort of the western suit. So
you think one of these is His Honour. and get
busy pushing and nudging your way closer,
and then a bulb flashes elsewhere, and you
realise too late that the non-descript little man
at the other end is IT, and that someone else
is ill, not you. Bab 1
.... In an institution of this sort, there has
to be a fence, I suppose, with people to
either side and of course the Third Estate
sitting squarely on it: the runners of hostels
and libraries, the toters of fees and fines and
all the rest of it, the drafters of documents in
perfect officialise. stately, impressive, majestic
and ullunderstandable. Three kinds. But that
tllere may be no division in spirit, that all
may be one, and recognising that there is
no unifying force so powerful as a shared
hatrad of an external thing. the powers that
he have thoughtfully provided for us those
sons of heaven that stand before the library,
back to back in stolid indifference, large as
life and twice as vulgar, asKing, no, begging
to be dynamited. Enough of them, however.
Too much has been said about the Gajendra
Circle and too often. Besides, a vestige of
decency and fellow-feeling still lingers. It is
not very fair, is it, to heave rocks at the
unuseful and the unornamental, when one
is in no better case oneself ?
Another rallying point is the Knick Knack
place where all are one in a unity of purpose;
the swigging of cokes or coffee. CKnick
Knack Restaurant'? What could it mean?
Way back in the stone age, when I was
learning the language, in the days of mice
that ran up clocks, and cows that jumped
over the Moon, all of which seemed rather
foolish and improbable to the severely prac~
tical youngster I was then, 1 was told that
a knick knack is a little object of no
particular use to anybody, kept about for
its decoratiVe value. The restaurant itself
is neither very little nOr yet very ornamental, and certainly most useful to its
management. They collect all our spare
drachmas, and some as well that are not so
spate. Nor could the term have been
intended to describe the management itself,
or the clientele. Neither fits the definition.
All other explanations failing, I'm forced to

Gymkhana Bids
FAREWELL TO Dr KLEIN
One. of the lesser bown facts about Dr
Klein is that he is a Professor of German in
!he Humanities Department. However, what
1S more well~known (and perhaps more im~
portant) is that he is the President of the
Institute Gymkhana, and has been so, for the
past three ydars. He was appointed President by virtue of the keen: interest he had
taken in student activities, right from the
time he joined the Institute ten years ago.
His friendly nature, his interest in student
activities and his admirable command· over the
English language have made him the ideal
Gymkhana President that he has been. He
has been the Gymkhana's < glliding light'
for the last three years. When. 1 use the
word • guiding light', I mean a person
who has unobtrusively worked behind the
scenes, always been at hand to tender adv.ice
(yet neVer tried to ram it down an unWilling
throat), gently pointed out mistakes and·
heartily applauded even mild successes.
It is precisely this nature of his, coupled
with his encouragement on the field. that
stirred our sportsmen into life, and lifted
them to heights of achievement in the InterIIT meet at Kharagpur. No other Gymkhana
President can boast of having seen. Madras
come Secon~ in the Inter-IIT Meet.
Dr Klein has made it a point never to interfere with the internal working of any
Committee; this has helped immeasurably in
the smooth functioning of the various units
of the Gymkhana. I am sure I echo the'
feelings of the entire student community
when I say that we shall miss him, this
friend of ours, when he leaves us'later this
month, to take up the Secretary-Generalship
of the Indo-German Society! we shall miss
his humorous talks, his huge car and his
ebullient personality. Perhaps, he will be
able to pay visits to India and to the Institute-, in connection with his job. We look
forward to those occasions in the future.
-BALAKRlSHNA NAMBIAR

j)irJ

YOU

know

thai 100;Yo of our
ErJlfors are literate?

conclude that what is meant is perhaps
what one is s~rved. if one is rash enough to
ask for anythmg more than one's favourite
liquid.
and
. , •• Kinck Knack Restaurants
omnibuses, where simpler names and words
would
suffice,
ostentatious buildings
the touch of impatience about our student~
~nd the added strut to their walk. the tendency
10 some of the staff to country-cousin their
brethren from humbler institutiuns-all these
po.int to one end only. We tend to put on
dog. There is more than a touch of the
snob in our make-up. Where this exists
ther~ has to. be something to justify it. some
speCial quality that characterises us alone.
Whatever this may be, it is an extraordinarily
elusive thing. For, after three years of
searching for it in broad daylight, with a
lighted lamp to aid, I still have not
found it.

. . : :..:-AmONY REDny

[*iho side illhabited by

OUr

illustrious Staff]

