RENDEZVOUS WITH THE LA W
Being the proud possessor of a new bike, I was rearing to go. I hoped to be the cynosure
of the traveling public's eye, but what bothered me was the unseemly attention my little L-board,
dangling in the front was receiving. People eyed me as though I were some kind of a
featherweight who had imperiously strayed into the heavy weight division. My discomfort
was not unfounded for soon a member of the traffic constabulary commanded me to a stop.
'A leamer, eh'. A transparent observation. For a brief moment I thought I'd quip 'Nice
work, Holmes' or something equally inane, but the moment was inopportune and the method
tactless. So I quelled initial impetuosity and said nothing at all. So long as there is anything to
be gained by saying nothing, it's said, it's better to do just that.
By then, the long arm of the law had made its way to the ignition keys and taken
possession of it. "That will be Rs.100 for violation x, Rs 150 for violation y, in total Rs.250.0r
will it be easier. ... " he left it like Mozart's last symphony. Unfinished, I mean.
The denouement might be to the traveling public, patently obvious. So I slipped an
unwilling Rs.20 into his palm, and he, reciprocatingly, slipped the keys into mine. I knew my
act was as peccable as his, but then I had my skin to save.
The formalities being completed, my venal bully avuncularly advised me 'watch out the
next time, son'.
And watch out I did, for the approaching traffic cop. At this point, my sentiments were
akin to that of an escaped convict. Whenever my internal radar spotted a cop I made,a beeline
for the nearest egress to my right or my left.
But the law, contrary to popular belief is not an ass. It cannot be deceived for long, I had
three more encounters with be law, much in the lines of the narrated experience.
But soon my fortune was to change. I did away with my L-board, on obtaining my
permanent license. My stock, I learnt, had risen substantially in the eyes of the law, for no
longer was I rudely accosted, or my road worthiness questioned, and on my part, no longer did
I cower at the sight of an approaching policeman.
All's well that ends well, you might say. But beware, all ye learners: 'The law is
watching you'.
- V. Chandramouli (246 Saraswathi)

2

