THE CONCEPT OF RG
RG-ing is not a modern concept. It has been in existence ever since Man made his presence on
earth or should I go further to say-ever since life originated. For, life is synonymous with
survival and of course, in the words of the great natural philosopher, only the fittest can survive.
In other words you'll have to RG all forms of life if you want to survive. The mightier lifeforms made sure they would survive (and pass on whatever they had acquired that would aid
survival in hostile environments to futur~ generations) by RG-ing the weaker forms. It really is
a moot point whether some life-forms were able to RG because of their strength or whether they
were strong because of their ability to RG ... akin to the familiar egg-hen (or is it hen-egg?
story).
When man passed into the phase of urban existence, RG-ing not only catered to the survival
instincts but also to his emotional security and satisfaction. He could gloat to himself that he had
put one over the KIA (Know-It-All) next door or his condescending boss at the office. An
example that rushes to the mind is the Keep-up-with-the-Jones attitude. For those of you not
familiar with the fore-mentioned attitude, it just means trying to do what the neighbour does so
that you don't feel left-out. How many times have you done it? Again, stratification of the
society so that some take the plum jobs and others the not-really-great kind is an example of RGing. The way men treated (note the past tense) women as long as they were single is a classic
case of RG-ing, needless to say that this across-genders RG-ing was reversed once men got
married to, what seemed to them, nice, young, loving women only to get hen pecked and the
like.
Hence, by giving a name 'RG' to this phenomenon of outdoing others, all that we are doing is
placing it in the context of our lives in lIT. I was told by my seniors (whom I believed to be
truthful) that the name originated from the Relative Grading system out here. RG-ing actually
meant Relatively out Grading the other junta. I suppose you must've had enough of this lecture
on the origin of RG, its more visible manifestations in society etc. so, how about a test of your
RGQ (RG Quotient) ...
All you have to do is mark off what seems to you the right answer ... There is negative
marking, so watch out! I would advise you to compare scores with the rating scale to see where
exactly you stand and of course, compare your score with that of your class-mates/wingmates/hostel-mates ...
Here goes .....
10

