THE MEANING OF COURAGE

April 5, 1972. This was the day that changed the course of Ramanna's life. Sheela, his wife,
woke him up earlier than usual and said: "This is going to be the day we have been waiting
for! "
Ramanna and Sheela were both clerks in Sharada Vidyalaya, the Panchayat school in the little
village of Naglurbakkam, about 40 miles South-West of Madras. The school principal,
Ianakiraman, better known as HS (for 'Head Sir'), had marched about 30 miles to the shores
of the Bay of Bengal with 25 other villagers when he was only 11 years old on the same day that
Bapujee had reached Dandi, thousands of miles away at the Shores of Gujarat, clad in a Dhotee,
his wooden stave in hand. The entire nation was awakened by Bapujee's call for the SALT

SATHYAGRAHA. People understood the simplicity with which Bapujee insisted that it was
immoral for the British to rule India. Ianakiraman had since then employed Bapujee's ideals in
his life and hoped that each child in his school would be committed to SWADESHI goods, and
acquire nation building skills in his school. Ramanna and Sheela worked hard for their school,
inspired by thier 'HS'.
Ramanna's day would begin about an hour before the school bell rang, which also he did as part
of his job, by personally checking in each of the ten class-rooms that chalk and duster were in
place. Though not a graduate, Ramanna was well read in HistofY. and Religion, and ·HS' had
assigned him the duty of writing an appropriate saying on the portable black-board that would
be taken to the school play ground where they assembled for the morning prayer. Just the
previous day Ramanna had 'written: IAn eye for an eye would make the whole world blind' and
had explained to the school assembly in his lucid Tamil how revenge was self-defeating.
Ramanna was pleased with his own narration and wished Sheela had heard him that day. She
had been on leave for about a month on the advice of their neighbor Chandramma, an elderly
widow who lived along with her grand-son Kutti. Chandramma had told her very categorically:
"You don't understand these things. You must not go to work in this state. You must be
careful. What is inside you is God's blessing, and you must take best care of it".

*****
19

