"How do you know it will be today? You had suspected this twice in the past ten days, and
nothing happened", Ramanna retorted. He ignored her anticipation and went off to work.
Ramanna had just finished tabulating that day's attendance for all the classes when Kutti came
running to inform that Sheela had to be rushed to the village dispensary and that Mohan had
brought his bullock-cart for that purpose. 'HS' gave his permission instantly, and by the time
Ramanna reached home, Sheela was already on her way. Chandramma was allowed inside the
room and along with the staff nurses helped Sheela deliver her first baby, a girl. Ramanna and
others waited anxiously outside and just as they heard the baby's cry, there was beaming joy
on Ramanna'a face. He felt ecstatic, almost electrified. When Chandramma emerged from the
room another ten minutes later, he could not understand her taut expression. She held
Ramanna'a hands and informed matter-of-factly: "God has given us a baby Sheela
............ but, ........ but, he could not do without her, and has taken away the older one from
us!" A gloom descended on them all. 'HS' personally supervised the last rites.

*****
It was about three months already, and Chandramma got a cup of hot coffee for Ramanna. He
hardly ever even as much as touched the baby girl, raised by this neighbor of his who was to
him like his own mother. "You must give her a name now, it is too late already. If you don't,
I shall now call her Seetha". Ramanna said: "Seetha is of course a,very nice name, but the baby
was born the same day Bapujee performed the SALT SA THYAGRAHA , so I will like to call her
SATHYA.» He had tears in his eyes as he recalled that after Sheela had expressed the anticipation
that the day they were waiting for had dawned it turned out to be her last one.

*****
Sathya was now three years old. Her vocabulary was growing day by day, and included several
English words. She had also started counting numbers. Ramanna wanted to make her a Teacher
in the school he worked, and hoped that she would some day become the school's principal.
Janakiraman had left Naglurbakkam to take charge of a big school in Trichy and the new
principal Govindachari was more interested in playing cards in the evening than teaching
children during the day.

20

