Ramanna was thinking of the days under Janakiraman, which he and Sheela rejoiced so much.
It was on one of those days that the High-School mathematics teacher had to be hospitalized for
several weeks. Classes were suffering and Janakiraman felt helpless. "Sir, if you will please
forgive me for what might appear as my brashness, may I take the mathematics classes? I have
studied upto B.Sc., but could not complete the examination", said Sheela. Janakiraman sent her
to the black-board and asked her to prove the Pythogorous theorem. Sheela came up with not
just one, but four alternate ways of proving it. She had learnt this from a book on Vedic
mathematics Ramanna had borrowed for her from the school library . For the Next several weeks
Sheela was teaching while Ramanna continued with his clerical work. This did not create any
difficulty between Rama~ and Sheela, who doted on each other, and wished every couple was
as happy as them.

*****
Sathya was now four years old and seemed to have inherited her

Jl1Ott.~r·s apth~':_ r..:~

mathematics. She already knew the multiplication tables and could keep track of the vegetable
expenses. Times had however become harder for Ramanna. Under the new principal, the
practice of writing 'Thought for the day' introduced by Janakiraman was abandoned and the
school assembly had become a mere ritual. Chandramma had moved with Kutti to another town
to stay with her son. The new neighbor had very little to do with Ramanna who had found it
very difficult to cope with the annual increase in the rent he had to pay for his tiny shelter. For
the last two months he had not paid the rent,. having sent all he could save for his sister's
wedding, and he now faced the threat from his landlord that he would have to vacate the house
if he didn't pay the rent within five days.
It was on the third day that Ramanna gathered the courage to request Govindachari, the
principal, if he could get any loan. "Don't ever come to me with such a request. Get out!", said
Govindachari. Ramanna could only curse himself for having failed to anticipate this predictable
outcome. By the time he returned home, he was running high fever. He had neglected himself
badly and his health had degenerated. Next day, without even ple~ding for an extension from
his landlord to pay the rent, he took temporary shelter in Mohan's house. Mohan took care of
him and Sathya for the next two months during wh,ich Ramanna recovered from tuberculosis.
He had lost his job by then. Govindachari told him very simply that there was no provision for
a long

medical1ca;'~

.in his positlon.

*****
21

