Ramanna had no means to express his gratitude to Mohan. One day when nobody else was
home, Ramanna left some flowers at the feet of the idol of Shri Venkatesh Mohan would
worship everyday and he left Mohan's home along with little Sathya. "Where are we going,
Appa?" asked Sathya. Ramanna remained silent. He didn't know, but his dream that he would
someday make Sathya the principal of the school he had worked for had not receded. He
remembered Sheela and her thought gave him courage and hope. He felt sure that he will find
a break. He understood his odds and wondered if Bapujee would have ever anticipated such
situations. Along with Sathya and some ,valises he was carrying, he got a ride in a truck that
was headed toward Madras. He hoped that there was some truth in what his beloved 'HS'
Janakiraman had said long back that in big cities one can always find some good jobs and earn
a comfortable living. Where there is a will, there is a way, so he thought, and reflected on
another

~Thought for

the Day' he had once written.

*****
The only job Ramanna could fmd was to carry some luggage of passengers at the Thiruvallavoor
bus-stand and earn a few rup~es against which he barely managed to buy some minimal food for
himself and Sathya. They slept at the bus-stand, but on the third day police asked him to vacate
that place. It was past 10 PM and Sathya was asleep. Ramanna carried her in one arm and his
baggage in the other. He had no idea what he would do now. He walked barely half a mile, and
tired, put Sathya on the footpath and sat by her side. He did not realize when he himself fell
asleep. Buses and Trucks were still speeding across at that late hour, mostly driven by drunk
drivers. A truck backed up right onto the footpath. Ramanna woke up by the shouts and screams
of people only to learn that Sathya was crushed under the truck. He did not remain conscious
to know what happened later.

*****
'A girl about five years old sleeping on the foot-path was run over by a truck' is what
Janakiraman remembered to have read in the news-paper. Two months later, he learnt that the
girl was Ramanna's daughter who Ramanna had dreamt would some day become a school
principal. Even as Janakiraman wondered if Ramanna would keep his courage alive as Bapujee
would have wanted, Ramanna had, by then, adopted an orphan girl who he planned to raise for
the service of man.
Dr.P. C.Deshmukh,
Department of Physics

22

