THE CAMPASTIMES LITERARY QUIZ
1.

He called them" buttered and shaggy", commenting on the different noises they make.
What was the Italian poet Dante referring to ?

2.

Salman Rushdie directly quotes two novelists in his novel "Shame". One is his
contemporary living at Paris, while the other is one of the most enigmatic writer of
Modern times. Name them both.

3.

Trenchant wit though bent with age
Poet, Philosopher, seer_
Can't withstand the canine bark
N or brew his poetic potions
'Less an apple rots in the desk.
To whom are the above idiosyncrasies ascribed?

4.

Who is novelist Barbara Cartland's most famous grand daughter?

5.

"When you came you were like white wine and honey
And the taste of you burned my mouth with its sweetness
N ow you are like morning bread
Smooth and pleasant ........... "
From what literary movement did the above verse emerge?

6.

A former school teacher and Nobel prize winner in literature, each of his novels was
refreshingly original in terms of style, structure and theme. Though once vastly
acclaimed, his books are now dismissed by critics on account of not dealing with topics
that fall under the purview of puritanical literature. Whom are we referring to?

7.

This rock group emblemized by their wild and strident guitaring adapted from the gipsy
music tradition answers to the appellation of a prominent Dickensian character. Narne
the group and the novel.

8.

Grudgingly heralded by Elizabeth Sydwell as the greatest poet of his generation, this
American created what is known as the " arch poetic style to inebriation". He inspired
one of the icons of country music into a name-change. Who was he?

9.

After receiving the Nobel prize, Earnst Hemingway when enquired as to the essential
qualities of a "
" answered in characteristic bluntness " a shock proof shit
detector". Complete the sentence.

10.

Much envied as one of the most successful popular writers, including screen plays, he
has this peculiar habit of eating the same type of food so long as he works on a book and
shifting to another type on commencing a different novel. Name the gastronomic freak.

23

