MAY I HELP YOU?
I was standing on the porch looking at the Summers' cottage. It has been lying vacant for many
years now. But now some family will be moving in this evening. Atleast that's what I heard. It should
be a pleasant change for me. Joe in the office all day long and I all alone, in the house, throughout the
afternoons. Life does tend to get a bit dull. Now I might get some company. There are only two houses
in this entire stretch of 300 yards.
The family had arrived some time back to inspect the cottage. I could manage just a glimpse thentwo children they had. Seemed a pretty decent family. May be, I shall call them to lun ...
My train of thoughts were broken by the sudden ringing of the phone.
"Hello", I said.
"Hi sweetie", said a voice, deep and long drawn. It wasn't Joe. He never is so frightening. I
slammed the phone down.
Again it rang. A full five minutes passed before I picked the receiver.
"I am going to kill you today baby", said the same voice and the phone went dead. The line was
deliberately cut. I froze. I couldn't tell Joe. No one was around and I had to go and pick up Patrick from
his school.
Somehow I managed to get the car out of the garage. My hards were trembling, my eyes darting
here and there trying to locate the mysterious caller. No one was around, not a sound. I sped to the
school. Patrick was.in tears waiting for me. Poor child he was hungry. We rushed back.
As I neared Hudson Avenue, I saw a blue sedan following us. I increased pressure on the
accelerometer. But the sedan seemed to close in on us. And just a few yards into Hudson avenue, my car
stopped. The sedan had reached the entrance. It stopped too. The man took out a cigarette and lit it. He
looked at me and gave us a thin smile - looked very dangerous. He got out slowly and acted as if
something was wrong with the car. He took out a long spanner. My heart skipped a beat. The man was
powerfully built, possessed a powerful weapon in his hand and was just a few feet away. His eyes were
glued to us and they were stone hard. I tried starting the car but it didn't. I decided to walk the 300
yards. I must have gone twenty yards or so. I looked back to find the man starting his car. I quickened
my pace and nearly began running. He caught up with us. The sedan stopped in front of us and the man
got out. His hands were in his pocket. There was something in there. I was panting. Patrick couldn't run
anymore. I closed my eyes and breathed a silent prayer.
"May I help you', said the man. "You must be Mrs. Joe. I am Smith, your new neighbour", said
he much to my relief. "Want a lift?" He asked.
Manish Jain
(Class of 1996)

29

