A HOLIDAY IN FRANCE AND ASSORTED DANGERS
Before anything else, I would like to destroy the absurd stereotype of the French being rude.
They are not rude, they just happen to hate you. Surely, that's no reason to avoid such a
beautiful country, though the French also tend to shortchange you. I just thought that I would
mention this shortchanging - I shan't dwell on it any longer.
What's striking about the French apart from their inclination to shortchange is their esoteric
culinary skill; if not in what they cook, atleast in their nomenclature; which is probably why one
should go to their restaurants - I don't mean go inside them but just stand outside and gaze
stupidly at :

CARTE DE MENU
Les petites eyeballes de mackerelle en thick de voiture
Les escargots avec les dinosaures dans Ie soupe
Le poisson de votre frere Raoul.

VOUS TRIED THE REST, NOW TRY LE BEST!
Apart from this and the inevitable shortchanging, France is actually an interesting place.
Le Louvre is a place you simply mustn't miss. Ofcourse , it is a different matter that when you
want to see a painting you actually see the backs of other tourists. Try standing on your toes
and you will see a larger congregation in front. Stand on someone's shoulders and you might
just catch a glimpse of a Neanderthal man at the head of the queue.
Other than the shortchanging epidemic, one must keep in mind that the best place to stay
is at one of those quaint cottages run by an old couple called Rene and Renee .. "Don't mind
me," Renee will say eight times during breakfast: "I know you are here for a quiet time and
I don't even want you to notice me, although Rene did want me to ask you not to throw your
escargots out of the window. They spoil the garden. A couple did that once and Rene took out
his machete - Doesn't Rene love his garden! I had to give ~ one of those shots to calm him
down. He still carries that couple's address in his wallet. But look at me you are obviously
here for tranquility. I just keep rattling on and Rene - I'm sure he's just kidding threatens to
lock me up with his scorpions if I don't shut up. And dont forget, those light fixtures in your
room are not miniature video cameras. Hey! what happened? where are you running off to?".
Aha ! Just kidding. And if you still are in France, don't miss the Eiffel tower not because
it is so great to look at, but because it is the only piece from history you can see in France, even
with the Neaderthals, the Huns and the Japanese tourists in front of you. And fmally as for that
shortchanging, one must take it in one's stride - cest la vie, you know. Apres Ie tous, que sera
sera.
Hey! where's my bloody wallet? ? ?
Vivek Krishnan
247, Ganga.

31

