THE ROGUES MARCH

I do not consider myself a conscientious person. Infact conscience in our profession is
a much hounded evil. My very good friend Charlie who was also my partner-in-crime was quite
a perfect thief except for this gadfly called conscience he could never shoo away. His conscience
gnawed at his sanity every time he was involved in a misdemeanour , which was ofcourse all he
was ever involved in. So much so, one fine October afternoon, as the sun was beating down on
his balding top, he consumed himself 'as he jumped from the white cliffs of Dover into the
ragged oblivion below. Funny how his top reflected the sunlight in crazy patterns on the way
down. So you see, the gates at our place are forever padlocked ( and sensibly too), against
conscience.
And yet, uncanny though it may appear, I too was once subject to the throes that only
conscience can deliver. I refer to an incident that shall remain indelible on the pages of my
torrid memory, so long as the breath in the body continues to come out warm.
We go back many years. Seven to be precise. It isn't a well dispersed fact (and that, hush
reader ! is an understatement) that every year in the month of March all subjects of the vast
criminal empire of England, whether it be petty thief or dishonest politician, take part in a kind
of festival. It is not ofcourse the usual festival full of hooplas, hurrahs, viands, music, dance and
other elements that make up banal fanfare. It is in tune with the nature of the underworld, a dark
and sinister ritual - an event so silent and scary it chills to the' spine, the most valiant among
men, women and believe me children. Can you visualise more than 20,000 of the most dedicated
purveyors of crime and corruption assembling on the infamous backstreets of Soho to pay
respects to Pluto - The God, Lord and Emperor of the underworld ? Each of the persons
engaged in the silent procession will be carrying a black valise which contains a definite portion
of the wealth he (or she) had amassed through criminal means during the past financial year.
These riches will then be incinerated at the altar of Pluto. It is believed that this act will
propitiate Pluto, who will then bestow upon the criminal fraternity renewed power and
opportunity, to plunder more, more and more. More so that the flames resulting from the
burning wealth will render Pluto more resplendant at the coming annual event.
I've been a party to this ritual eversince I was formally accepted into the criminal fold
and have been observing the same with utmost sincerity, faith and respect. The event acquired
a deep rooted sacred tinge in the hearts of all members of the fraternity - all excepting Long
John. The referred dude derives his apellation from his towering frame. Long John wasn't just
tall. He was the most capable and ruthless individual among those who've ever welded their
32

