lives to this nefarious vocation. Among the criminal community he had acquired the status of
an unsurpassable legend - so much so, his toothy smiling face was a permanent fixture on the
bulletin boards at all police stations. His activities were transnational and diversified. He was
wanted by half a dozen governments across the globe for a medley of crimes. They were lucky
they never caught him, for after coughing up the prize money they put on his head, their budgets
would've had to run deficits. So much charisma surrounded his name and person, aspiring
criminals carried his mug shot in their backpockets and tried to emulate his deeds, only to land
up in jail. Such was Long John, and he was my brother.
"Hide of God!" he once announced "You noodles with punctured sanities actually expect
me to pulverise my hard earned wealth at the altar of a ridiculously fanciful myth, wrought by
queasy minds? By my blistering backside, the oniy ubject I considt!!" worth \vorshipping '. . lIJIJ!d
be my shadow and ... " (The rest had to be censored for being too charmingly colloquial). The
others used to get transmogrified at the blasphemy and worry about the repercussions of Pluto's
wrath, but he couldn't have cared less. It was OK by me for I believed a man's got a right to
choose his own path; besides, I respected him, not to mention that I was petrified of his temper.
But, seven years ago, Long John crossed all limits. A month prior to the ROg'..!es M:trch. he
accosted me while I was about my nocturnal duties and proposed buslness.
"Junior, I've got an idea, which if it turns fruity will make us so rich we can take over
Rolls Royce".
Gladdened by his approach and much in awe of his well discussed ingenuity, I perked
up the auditory and asked him to shoot.
"Let's rob the Rogue's pit". He said.
It took me a ~ll minute to recover my speech and all the while, his eyes leered gredily
into mine out of his greasy face, the tip of his brown tongue curled round a protruding stained
tooth. "Rob the Rogue's pit ?" I shouted back in an intense hoarse whispher. "Have you lost
your senses? Do you realise now much the ritual means to us thieves? For long you've
ignored a power higher than yourself, but don't force Pluto into displaying his wrath now"
Long John wasn't obviously tuned to such speeches. He could barely suppress his
exploding wrath as he gripped my neck, and scraped me up along the wall in level with his eyes.
" Listen sis", he said" I don't tag you late in the night to sit and allow myself to be reformed
by your snot-nosed philosophy. It's time you shake yourself of a medieval fancy and teach
your noodle to do a bit of independent thinking. The only Pluto exists in your ossified head.

33

