Here I am the finest criminal that ever cavorted in nature's bosom and I got to where I am
without paying obeisance to no Pluto. Lissin sis! Lissin! The governments are closing in their
dragnets and I'm in bad need of dough. This is our last chance.I've sewed up the plan like the
lining on the inside of my stomach. There's a tunnel I've got dug beneath the pit a long time
ago. I shall stay in there and sack up all the monies as they drop in. When the time comes for
torching the pit, you hold the torch in your hand and "Hail Pluto" thrice. By the second hail,
I would have slammed the trap door and scampered out into the open. Life for me is quite tight
now sis. You comply and we'll tan, surf and smoke Cubans for the rest of our lives. Say no and
you convalese at the Thames Hospital t~ll your flame's out".
Saying thus he left me and my roused conscience to battle it out, in the night, with a
bruised neck thrown in as well. The tussle was long and overshot the night. Through the next
month my earnings dropped and vacillations were chiselling away at my sanity.
"Don't do it. It's a crime more heinous than the most gory murder" my conscience
shrieked. And yet still, there was a life the stuff of dreams waiting at the end of tunnel and a
dire threat besides.
"Do it ! Don't do it ! Don't contaminate your religion.
Don't bring down the wrath of Pluto upon your fold" .
The mind was a raging battlefield of contradictions as I held the flaming torch aloft in
my hand. The final call was pure and straight from the heart., I whispered three sweet Hail
Pluto's all to myself, threw the torch into the pit and walked back to raucous cheers, just as
some screams from the pit were being muffled by the roaring fire. I never really knew when the
actual cremation began. I walked away before the screams died down.
People did miss Long John for a while, but no one was too sad about that. I'm now the
successor to Long John's coveted reputation. Also, I don't allow my conscience to bother me
anymore. You might think it was wrong of me to have committed fratricide. Well as I mentioned
earlier I entitle people a right to opinion. As for me, my face is famous even in Lhasa - so no
regrets.
By the way, Charlie didn't jump off the cliff; I pushed him. Signora.
- Abishek

34

