«V

[April I5th, I963

CAMPA§T|MES
CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEME NTS
PERSONAL
ABDUL HAMEED, I.B.Tech., you have
also been selected as a baby—sitter by the
Staff Lecturer. Will you please report to the
Editor, Campastimer, with the certiﬁcates in
original ?
The Campartimes
A new Children’s Section, ‘Kiddy Campus’,
will be started in Campartime: from the

THE PS YCHOLOG Y
OF NATIONAL
ENTHUSIASM

‘Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder’—

BY V. S. KUMAR AND M. S. VAIRANAPILLAI

Those who

An Experience
Non-Pareil

play April—fool are largely

prompted by fun and enthusiasm. If they
succeed in fooling some, e5pecially, the so-_

called intelligent people, their enthusiasm
swiftly increases in its potentiality. It beco—

this was so very true when I ﬁrst met her.
She seemed so vivacious, full of naiveté and a
very repository of all that could be classiﬁed
as best and desirable. My class-mates chided

me for falling head over heels in love with

mes creative or destructive.
When the
April-foolers miserably fail in their attempt,
their enthusiasm, naturally, ﬁnds a grave pit.

one who could be classiﬁed as commonplace
and belonging to the usual category of girls
budding with the zestful vigour of sweet
seventeen. ‘But’, as Shakespeare so soberly

The Campastime:

That enthusiasm has been a potent factor in

remarks, ‘love is blind and lovers cannot see

NOTICE
CONSEQUENT on increase in all-round

human society cannot be denied. Man,
unlike all other animals, thrives on enthusi—
asm. The greatest achievements of Greece
and Rome were possible only when the enthusiasm of their people was steadily growing.
The U.S.A. or the U.S.S.R. may be cited as
an example where enthusiasm achieved

the follies which they themselves commit’, and
this was so true in my case as she seemed to me
to be replete with transcendental qualities.

next issue and Uncle Bawa will be in charge.
Grandad Klein will set the puzzles.
Manager, Campastimer.

production costs, the rates for Classiﬁed
Divertisements have been revised to 55 nP.
per line.
Manager,

The Campastimer.
VELACHERY YOUTH ASSOCIATION

unprecedented results in almost all walks of

OR his services to the Madras State and
his contribution to the enrichment of
Tamil language in particular, the Association

life. As a psychological factor in the successes
and failures of man, it occupies an indi—
sputable place. But for its central place in

will confer on Dr. Nikolaus Klein the title of

life, there might have been many more
suicides. At the same time, it may result in a
Messiah complex, psychosis or neurosis
exploding into emptiness.

‘ Nikilahasya Kalaijnan’.

Hon. Secretary.
CHANGE OF NAME
I

V. Buddha, having attained no enlighten—
meut, will hereafter be known as
V. Siddhartha.

:

ISSING

from

I.I.T.

Campus since

Enthusiasm, like an organism, grows and
reaches greater heights only when it is

sustained by other factors. Otherwise, it
will die a natural death. One does not have

I.I.T. LIBRARY
OWING to National Emergency, one blade

to look far and wide to ﬁnd the graveyards
of projects gloriously conceived. They have
become part of our archaeology. In the
absence of a sustained effort, they have
tottered in a death-danCC and. Crumbled
into one vast debris to the everlasting shame

from each fan is removed in the Reading
Room of the library. Members are requested
to bear with the inconvenience.

of human ﬁcklemindedness. To conceive a
great enterprise is indeed difﬁcult; it lies
within the realm of possibility. But in the

March 25, tree No. WP 183

(Palmyra

Palm). Will present owners please return it
to the Estate Ofﬁcer, I.I.T. Madras.

Librarian.
ENDERS,

TENDERS
at lowest quotations,

execution of such an enterprise, faith, sustai-

ned will—power and ceaseless energy play
no mean part. In the success of any project
are

urgently invited for the supply of the
following items (151 standards), in addition
to the school requirements already announced:
Headmistress
I no.
-l_.- doz.
School Mistresses
Ayahs
;} doz.
Secretary,
Campus School Committee.

or a grand. plan, enthusiasm is invariably

found to be an indispensable force.
To borrow somewhat from Jonathan Swift,
fancy ﬂies while reality emerges limping.

slow. The constant grindmill that the human
mind is produces successive ideas only to
bury them in the airless vault of nothing-

WINNING entries in the contest for a
suitable title for our editorial collection

to be brought out in book form next month :
‘ Bawa corrupts, absolute
Bawa corrupts absolutely’
Second Prize: ‘ After Bawa, when ?’

First Prize:

, strike by our staff, who are demanding" four

in life's great game asserting their ideas in
the teeth of opposition and pursuing their
goals against tremendous odds against them.
We owe the foundations and super-structu-

Further issues of Campastimes will Come
out when the situation normalises. We regret
the inconvenience caused to our readers and
hope to start normal work by July, 1963.

(Sd). Dr. N. Klein,
Publisher.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
ANTED an experienced painter with
skill in ‘ precision ’ painting to mark up
the trees in our I.I.T. model. Persons who had
experience in miniature painting, will be preferred. Apply in person to the Director,
I.I.T., Madras.

CLASSIFIED
DIVERTISEMENTS
r55 nP. per line

would wither to dust where it is absent.

Our

ideas and views on life were so similar that we
could see everything in life as having a purpose which it is perhaps destined to execute.

Then came the deluge—all of a sudden
there seemed in her a coldness and nonchalancc which was very evident. I entreated
and begged her about the cause of the
change—but it was in vain. We had to part as
it was nearly the end of the term and the
nauscating ordeal of the examinations had to
be experienced.

I fell into a reverie which led me to a

not of arms, but of the mind. There was a
glaring change in my behaviour alsoﬁI was
not betraying the usual gusto in my "studies

most of us, they did not remain mute and
spiritually inactive. They hurled themselves

tribunal consisting of Shri R. Natarajan, I.A.S.

would exist only where there is love and

reconciled the whole affair as a tour de force—

WE have been obliged to close down our
ofﬁce temporarily owing to the illegal

Our journalists have been, in
Commission.
.addition, paid a special allowance with
Provident Fund and 'other beneﬁts. The
matter has been referred to the One—man

This never—ending analysis of people and life
in general led us to the inevitable conclusion
that life in its highest and most noble form

people who were not afraid of facing new
challenges even if it meant death to them.
The fact that our civilization has endured to
this day merely reveals that there have been
many who refused to be treated like tennis

NOTICE

three months’ pay awarded by the Pay

whole creation of human beings so violently P

It

balls, hurled back and forth between life and
death. They refused to be inanimate goods,
bought and sold in the market-place. Unlike

months’ pay as bonus in contravention of the

maelstrom and malice persistent in earth to
the dearth of true love and affection. The
misanthrope to us seemed to be an anoma—
lous phenomenon—how could one hate the

They are the

ness. From nothing to nothing, this is the
story of most of our lives. But civilization
is the story of a creative few.

ANNOUNCEMENT

We traced the indisciplinc and the seeming

deeper probe of the causes that contribute
most to the unhappiness of mortals. Attachment was the catch-word that sprang to my
mind—I was non—plusscd and almost vexed
with life at her behaviour, but nevertheless

is the story of something from nothing.

The Campastimes

She, with thought’s speed, sensed almost
instinctively that I was in love with her and
so she responded not spontaneously but in
stages. We went to college long before sche—
dule and spent delightful moments talking of
love and its beneﬁcial and far—reaching effects.
We were all sympathy for those who have
never experienced that cannot-be-told delight
of hearts and minds in unison par excellence.

res of modern civilization to these heroes of
the past for whom death itself was a com-

pelling force of enthusiasm.
Examples of this creative minority are many
and varied. The majority simply follows

asI had evinced before. I felt with doldrums of self—analysis and hours of thought
of life in general and mine in particular. The
pleasant hours we spent together came ﬂeeting

into my mind only to be superseded by the
perhaps sardonic state of affairs now. I had
joined an entirely different pursuit of science
from hers. The gulf between us widened still
further as she had her hours of study different

from mine and as it was a beﬁtting nemesis
to all she seemed to be oblivious of my
presence.
Introspection and thought led me to the
conclusion that perhaps if I had not met her,

it might have been more beneﬁcial, but it

a drill-master. The point which ought to
be made clear even in a drill is the rhythm.

proved to be a fallacious piece of reasoning.
I had known and experienced that state of
bliss and also its abSEnce. To me, it seemed

It contains the seeds of enthusiasm.

The

that a human being would be considered to

majority can be whipped into a creative walk

Misguided enthusiasm has often led people to
pools of stagnation or a dead—sea. Mahatma

be worth the name only, if he experienced life
in all its aspects—both of joy and of unhappiness.
The via—media namely, being non—
Chalant to everything is mere sob—stuff. As
my friend recalled to my mind the lines

Gandhi was one of such creative leaders.

which run

of life by a rhythmic drill~master inspired
by an all-embracing philosophy of life.

He took up his cross and walked his lonely
path. A million adversaries and a great
empire, no, not even the Caesars in high
places could deviate him from the enterprise
into which he had thrown his body and soul.

Why should I wasting in despair

Die because a woman’s so fair.
seemed so true.

V. RANGANATHAN.

The Indian masses awoke to an era of selfIt is

Campastimer No. 9 will come out after

this man’s equanimity, his unbending will,
his cascading enthusiasm that whisked the

the Institute vacation on July 15. Contributions should reach the Editor on

determination under his leadership.

.. UMBRA "
(Continued on page 6)

or before June 30.

