April I5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES
The Foreign Expert

PERSONALITIES (8)
BY. TEE AAR

The techniques were well established: loud
protests of provincial discrimination, hunger—

strikes and then the ﬁnal weapon of a demand
for separation from the Federation.

Results.

of course, depended on the nature of the
demand, but were quite impressive. A hunger—
strike had led to the creation of a ‘ linguistic ’
state; how could it be otherwise in the land

of its origin where it had been developed to
such perfection by the Father of the Nation
himself and used by him also to such telling
purpose P
But the novelty of it slowly wore off, and
one came to the conclusion that practically
any ill—fed Indian could fast indeﬁnitely,

especially, when he was surreptitiously fed
with concentrated stuff of the right kind.
Even the Central Government, having practically no member who had not at some stage in
his career gone on hunger-strike (whether it

be on account of not being given the whole
family’s share of sweets to oneself, or in order
to force the University to revise its verdict
of failure at an examination), slowly got scent
of the stint behind it all and decided to ignore
fasts-unro-death or the much more common
fasts-until»they—are-broken.
g

No course other than a concerted demand
for separation from the ‘ Delhi Imperialists ’

was then open to Mangoland.

It had a very

serious grievance : the absence of a harbour.
It produced the best cowdung in the Fede-

ration and lived mainly by its export.
the inordinate increase

With

in railway freight

charges imposed by the ‘ Villains of Delhi’,
the exports had shrunk to unspeakably low
levels. A modern harbour would rejuvenate
the whole economy and bring unprecedented
prosperity to Mangoland. The Centre, however, when approached for ﬁnancial assistance
for the project, dismissed the whole scheme

as unworkable and dissociated itself from it.
This was the last straw. Mangoland was
shocked by this callous treatment, the call
for revenge was in the air. Bullock—carts were
set on ﬁre, the children from all the four

primary schools in the State went on strike,
the priests organised mass prayers in the

DR. V. ANANTHARAMAN

temples for the eternal perdition of the Central
Government. Even the ruling political party
had to take notice of the growing rage of the
‘Dr. Anantharaman? Oh, you mean the
guy with the bow tie .F' a fresher was once
overheard to say in the course of a conversation. Not a very respectful reference, to be
sure, but very apt, no doubt. Dr. Anantharaman is unique in preferring the bow tie to

the conventional one and audaciously unconventional in wearing it on all occasions.

On

being questioned on this point, he said, ‘ Let
me adopt the I.I.T. technique of answering a
question with a question: Don’t you think
it is more conventional than a tie and shoeless feet P ’

Dr. Anantharaman had the ‘ monopoly’ in
this ﬁeld until the advent of Mr. U. Bhaskara
Rau created a ‘ duopoly’, and it is sincerely
hoped that it will not develop into a ‘ cutthroat competition ’.

A habitually cheerful person—you must
hear him laugh to know what laughter can be!
—he is rarely to be seen in a glum or angry
mood. He never loses his temper in class,

a remarkable fast considering that
teaching the present III Year batch.

he is

Another glowing tribute to his patience is
that he goes for evening walks With Dr. M. S.

(Micro Speed) Va‘iranapillai.

Time and again,

Dr. Anantharaman has the class roaring with
his sallies which (he being essentially Freudian

in his analysis of human behaviour) invariably
have that ‘subtle libidinous slant ’ as he
himself quotes.

‘Oftentimes,’ he once wrote

in Campastimes, ‘a widely appreciated joke
has a “tinge of vulgarity”.’ He maintains that
it was by experimenting on this idea that
Ananthu got the First Prize at the Intercollegiate Debate.
Dr. Anantharaman is one of those rare
personalities who take a genuine delight in
cracking jokes at their own expense. Absolutely unassuming, he makes light of his
achievements and tends to deride himself on

his weak points.

For example, by his own

admission, he has in inferiority complex as

regards mathematics. In class he quips,
‘ This “ simple ” mathematical manipulation
is highly complex for me, so will you please
do it yourselves? ’ and then immediately bursts

people and of the demand for separation. '
The matter was ﬁnally raised in the State

Assembly by members of all parties.

The

ministers parried the questions for sometime,

but were themselves convinced of the justness
of the demands of the people.

At last, the

forth into his characteristic laugh the sound
of which is not very different from the pufﬁng
of a steam locomotive.
'
He represented his school in football and
on entering college, hung up his boots in
favour of the N.C.C. It is rumoured that
he did so in an attempt to shirk P.T. I However, he soon became an ardent N.C.C.
enthusiast. (A set of II Year students to whom
I mentioned this, considered it to be an incom—
prehensible statement.) On some evenings, if
you happen to see an immaculately dressed
person (complete with bow tie and leather

found someone who claimed he could build

shoes) charging around the hockey ﬁeld, you

a harbour almost anywhere in the world.

can

such persons are rarely found, he was booked
on the spot and entrusted with the life-saving

be sure it is Dr. Anantharaman.

He

wields no mean stick, however, and defence

seems to be his forte.
Dr. Anantharaman has , had a brilliant
academic career. After his MA. (Economics)
in Madras, he went to Wisconsin, U.S.A. on a

Smith-Mundt-Fulbright scholarship,

where

he became the ﬁrst Indian to get a Ph. D. in
Industrial Relations.
A proliﬁc writer, Dr. Anantharaman has

among his publications ‘ Some Aspects of
Financing Major Industries in India ’, ‘ Indian
Working Form: and American Labour Force ’,
and ‘ Curves and Contours’, the last mentioned

being a highly controversial article which set
the Campus astir a few months ago.
On being asked about his impressions of
U.S.A., he paid a high tribute to the
Americans. He said, ‘ If one does not learn

to be humble after one’s training in the U.S.A.,

Chief Minister had to intervene and placate
the agitated representatives of the people by

promising to call in a foreign expert to advise
the Government on the matter.

then directly approach a foreign government
for help and thus begin to be independent of

the Centre.
A committee of ministers and others was
soon set up to ﬁnd a suitable expert, and
after an extended tour of Europe and America,
As

(for Mangoland) task of planning and constructing a harbour in the State.
The expert arrived without delay and was
received by the Chief Minister in person. A
special landing place for an aeroplane had to
be constructed, as Mangoland had no aero—

drome and as the expert refused to use any
other means of transport. He started complaining about the weather and the cows in
the streets even before he got out of the plane.
However, no one understood much of what
he said, as neither the Mangolanders nor the

expert spoke English well.

It was generally

understood that he swore at them when he
learnt that all his travelling to select a suitable

site would have to be done by bullock—cart.
The contract stipulated only air-travel up to

the capital and was silent on many othe

one has learnt nothing at all.’

M. V. Rao.

He would be

asked to make detailed plans for a harbour on
the most modern lines. Mangoland would

(Continued on page 9)

