[April lSth. I963

CAMPASTIMES

FROM HERE AND
THERE

LETTERS TO TH E
EDITOR

SURJIT RANDHAVA
A couple of days back same gentleman on a
motor-bike
stopped me and asked for
directions to go to the workshops. Not
wanting to create a bad impression on a
possible visitor’s mind, I took some pains to
guide him. His manner did not strike me as
being very businesslike, and I began to
wonder what he was up to. Five minutes
later I found out. He walked up to one of

EDITORIAL

the windows of the ﬁtting shop, handed his

LOCK YOUR VEHICLES !
As children between the ages of ten and
twelve, we have all felt that acute craving for
driving, but rarely got the opportunity to
satisfy it. The youngsters of our Campus experience no such limitation as is proved by

the following episode.
Prof. M.V.C. Sastry’s son was taking one

spark plug to one of the boys, waited till it
was cleaned, reﬁtted it, and continued happily

on his way !
Dr. Rouvé surprised the Institute by turning
up on his bicycle the other day. It seems he
had also been noticed by some of the students,

not

without considerable alarm, pedalling

GYMKHAN A

Sir,
A year has passed by with all our achievements and drawbacks, so also a year of crowded activities of our Gymkhana. But it is a
fact that the activities of the Gymkhana are
yet limited by dubious demarcations. Helpless we are to utter unconsciously that it has
extended its ﬁeld to private activities like ‘de—
signing and developing go-carts’.
Firstly and mostly it is roughly deﬁned,

with 8 student members elected and more
than 20 selected. The reasoning behind this
as I come to know from reliable sources is
that it is rather cumbersome to elect all the 20
or 30 members.
Further what is the use of so many as 8 or 9
committees P You may wonder that there are

of his usual walks down Delhi Avenue, when

furiously down Marina way late on a Saturday night. Mrs. Rouvé was patiently follow-

he saw the famous ‘Oils and Fertilizers’ truck—

ing behind in a car.

One can only hopefully

committees whiCh did not have even a single
meeting till now. The most active of all

cum-water-trailer combination parked there'
Curiosity killed the cat and it nearly killed

surmise that the good Doctor is practising

committees, the Literary Activities Committee

our enthusiast, too.

Having got into the

truck, he managed to start it (law demands

that all vehicles be provided with an ignition

hard for the Tokyo Olympics.
I am sorry to say that there has been no
response at all to my suggestion (last issue) of
a driving and reliability trial. One would
have thought that with so many cars and
scooters in the Campus, at least a few persons

had met only twice during the whole year.
On the Institute Day the Gymkhana presented a very colourful entertainment pro-

gramme.

The beautiful array of cups bore

key I), and being in gear, it started moving
(naturally !) and in giving a perfect demonstration of the ‘drunkard’s walk’ problem, nearly collided with the Institute bus speeding

would have been interested.
The Third Year Civils are having a merry

a prize just because he is the editor and four

down at over 40 m.p.h. I

time.

out of the ﬁve members in an English drama
get prizes. At this rate some of the selected

The timely arrival

of Mr. Uprethi saved the boy, and not knowing himself how to drive, he deposited the

vehicle unceremoniously in a ditch close to
Gajendra Circle.
We trust that the Security Oﬂicer will make
a check on all vehicles plying regularly inside
the Campus and certify their road-worthiness.
Scooters are particularly susceptible for short-

term borrowing, and the above incident will,
we hope, induce those owning cars and
scooters to lock their vehicles when parked.
The child, in the best Madame Montessori
tradition, is not to blame, but instructions to
the effect that eighteen is the minimum legal

driving age, may be imparted to the Institute
lollipop-set.

Currently they are engaged in a nature

study, both wildlife and ﬂowers. At times
they also manage to squeeze in a little survey—
ing. After ten days of fun, a hopeful young
dodger of the same class was bitterly disappointed when he was apologetically informed
by the Surveyor General’s Ofﬁce that they
could not supply him with ready made con-

Yours etc.

the machine shop, the ﬁrst impression that

AAN.

STREET LIGHTNING

Sir,

who are the cows?
Brig. Ram Singh took the salute at an im-

note that we did not have to line up to get

it.

The normal procedure in the I.I.T. to get

one’s tea at any function is to form a queue
for the ﬁrst few seconds and then to join the
mad rush that ensues. The shot range was
also inaugurated on the same day by our Chief
Guest. In the shooting that followed, our
Director got the maximum number of points,

WRITE LEGIBLY

the British Constitution.

one gets upon entering is that of a dairy farm.
The coolant may resemble milk, the lathes
may be mistaken for milk containers, but then

had the misfortune to land in our Campus.
The tea was good, and it was heartening to

WE CAN READ IT

standard and prize winning articles like ‘This
is Delhi’, I don’t think, are worth reading.
Excuse me, gentlemen, for writing a . few
words about our Gymkhana which works on

Herr Hasenbein wisely says that looking at
all the coolant the boys spill on the ﬂoor of

attack led by the ever vociferous G-2 com-

PROVIDED

Maybe it is by mistake.
The magazine as such is not of so high a

the basis of an ‘unwritten constitution’ as

pletely routed the enemy paratroopers who

YOUR CONTRIBUTION

secretaries also would have been given prizes.

tour maps of the Institute area as it had not
yet been charted by them.

pressive march past of our N.C.C. Cadets to
celebrate the annual N.C.C. Day. A mock

WE -GLADLY PUBLISH

ample testimony to the talents of young men
here but it is a novel thing that an editor gets

I have gone through your Editorial in
March issue regarding ‘ Street Ligtning’. As
such matters affect the administration in
some way or other, it is not well and good
to the person concerned to point out the
errors openly (giving the name of the person

who pointed out such errors of administration), giving room to the administrative
authority to take action against the concerned
on some other occassion.
Matters which are of common interest and
not criticising administration can be published
in the name of the author.
Yours etc.,

ONE INTERESTED.

and Commodore Heble the least.
There has been some news that a hospital

is likely to be made just behind the range,.
across the Velacheri Road. I don’t think it’ll
be very healthy for the pitients’ constitutions.
We all know the story about ‘jumping from

Why Worry ?

the frying pan into the ﬁre’.
There are only two things to worry
about :
Either you are'well, or you are sick.
If you are well, there is nothing to
worry about.
If you are sick, there are two things to

worry about.
Either you will get well, or you will die.
If you get well, there is nothing to
worry about.

If you die, there are only two things

Bajaj, affectionately and very appropriately
nicknamed

‘the

signal’,

turns

up

every

evening in our wing at 7 o’clock sharp to persuade us all to go for ‘grub’. One evening
he forgot to show up, and all of us missed
dinner. You should have seen what was done
to him the next day !

The Film Club showed ‘Gidget goes H.’
last month.
ﬁnitely

Anything that starts well de-

can’t end well,

and so half way

through it started to rain.

But so struck was

[We think that saving electricity is ﬁrst
and foremost of common interest—Ed]

SPEED-A- TECH

Sir,
While commending Tee Aar on his brilliant
solution for accelerating the production of
Bachelors of Technology, I

wish, however,

to point out a serious shortcoming of the plan

before the Ministry for B. Tech. Industry,
dazzled by the impressive ﬁgures quoted by
Tee Aar, accepts the plan unanimously.
A short analysis of the ﬁrst years of the

career as an engineer is necessary to understand the diﬂiculties. There is suﬂﬁcient

go to

stunner Deborah Walley, that in spite of

proof that the B. Tech. of the present generation poses a problem to the society, to his
employer and to himself in the early years of

Kapoor’s chagrin and the projector’s damp-

his prefessional career.

If you go to heaven, there is nothing to

ness, everyone continued to sit right through.
I’m afraid that this being the end of the

of 21 years, roughly 97.7% of the freshly
stamped B. Techs are still unmarried and it
has been noted that young unmarried engineers

to worry about.
Either you go to heaven, or you

the youthful and appreciative audience by

hell.
worry about.
And, if you go to hell, you will be so darn

busy

year as far as we all are concerned, I’ve just

of luck in the annual branding and slaughter,

are a menace to the respectable society. The
reason for this phenomenon may lie in the fact
that a young B. Tech. who has spent about 5

and a jolly summer vacation after the clouds

years in a predominantly male world loses his

have cleared.

balance when let loose (after graduation) in the
mixed society. On the professional side, too,
the young engineer is a literal problem—child

about run out of everything to put down;

Shaking hands with your friends, that
you
Won’t have any time to worry.
So then, Why worry P ?

a:

a:

*

At an average age

I’ll sound off by wishing everybody the best

Idea of the Month : How about having a
lawn in front of the Civil Engineering Building?

