April l5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES

5

Letters—(Continued)
to his employer.
Imagination and idealism
not yet cooled down in Contact with this hard
world of industrialists and Government redtape often get him or his bosses into tight
uncomfortable corners. This causes disfavour
with the bosses and lack of peace of mind to
himself. Lastly, the suspicious attitude taken
up by the society and the employer imposes a

too, of their regular hours due to the following notice handed to and read out by the
lecturer :
‘ Dr. Fareed Ydobon of the University of
Irehcalev (Turkestan) will deliver a lecture

Owed

on ‘Engineering Cogology ’ to the Second
Year Students. They may please assemble
at room No. 105.’

When the lecturer concerned was told that
Ydobon was ‘ nobody ’ inverted and Irehcalev

terriﬁc mental strain on the young fellow and

‘ Velacheri ’ inverted, he refused to believe it

he slowly loses his grip on anything, especi-

and swore he actually had seen the gentle-

ally engineering.

The picture, however, is

not as black as depicted above ; for our young
B. Tech., now around 2.1. or 25, marries and
there is usually a marked improvement in the
situation. The society no longer considers
him to be a potential menace to respectable
living and 82.8% of the engineers after
marriage have been found to submit willingly

of ﬂye-Aye 750

man being taken round by the Director! The
gentleman he had seen was, of course,

Explaining to the III Year Mechanicals the

Dr. Carl Gibson who had come to the Institute to deliver a lecture to the Chemical
Engineering Department.
To cap them all (April Fools I mean),
Mr. U. B. Rao sent a circular to himself and

unique three phase, ﬁve wire system used for

to the whims and fancies of their bosses

lighting purposes, Dr. N. G. K. Murthy went
on to say that a latest method of power factor
correction has been developed. It simply

compensating amply for any unpleasantness

prescribes that every alternate street light be

caused in their bachelor days.

switched off !
*
a:
s
The Omnipotent, Omnipresent, Omniscient
Omnibus. On its hourly trips to and from

There is a

marked shift in their mental attitude towards

any cause of dissatisfaction in the office—they
either have no time to worry about this in
their leisure hours or they take it out on their
wives and children rather than on their bread
givers. To sum up, the present day B. Tech.
is reactionary from his zxst to his 25th year
(average ﬁgures), i.e. for a period of 4 years
becoming in general, however, a tame and

good citizen afterwards.

.‘So, you are one of those fellows who’ve

pinched our riding grounds ’, an Englishman
told an IITanian the other day when introduced

Anyone with even a faint knowledge of the
topography of the institute will realise that
Cau‘very is on the way from Taramani to

Narmada.

Still, all the students of Cauvery

(Krishna) have to unnecessarily walk a
distance. Prof. Vairanapillai has his dinner
at Cauvery mess and everytime he is made to

possible that due to such a long period of free

(Isolation Hospital) at Velachcri.

walk that distance, his appetite suffers.

We

interest i).
at
*
:1:
The Government of Madras are thinking of
opening a new Infectious Diseases Hospital
This gives all the residents in the Institute

As to Tee Aar’s second plan,

Campus a fair and equal chance to contract
cholera and smallpox.

sufﬁce it to say that the problem is unimaginable.
If the authorities are still of opinion that
the proposed plan can be carried through

Raj Bhavan estate, the Governor and the
Institute will be exposed, the presence of the

inspite

of the

possibility of

increased

reactionarism, they would do well to take the
following precautionary measures to reduce
that possibility :~—
1. Compel the engineer to marry within
3 years after the degree exam.
2. Compel him to maintain himself and
his wife only on his salary. (No money

Blelieve it or not, fourty freshers landed
uP
*
as
are

Taramani Gate, but not at Cauvery Hostel.

hope that the authorities will withdraw the
promulgarnation (shall we say in the national

alarmingly.

_ ‘ The hall tickets for the Annual Examinatlon are available in the Humanities Department ’.

Adyar, the omnibus stops at Narmada and

Now, taking up Tee Aar’s ﬁrst plan of B.
Tech. at 11 years of age, a precocious engineer
may also be expeCted to be precocious in
other matters.
We may expect that he
marries earlier than his present day counterpart, say at 18 years. Even then the reactionary period is extended to 7 years, which will
be very troublesome indeed from the point of
View of the society and employers. It is even
living and thinking the percentage of engineers
who remain untamed after marriage increases

read out to the First Year boys:

Apart from the great danger the villages,
hospital will artiﬁcially saturate the 'area in
respect of industries. Any new industry

to him. ‘ But I do hope you won't mind ifI
still take an occasional ride there, will you 2 ’
No, the IITanian replied, no objection
whatsoever. The gentleman looked very

much like someone coming straight out of a
Riding Club’s ‘ Annual Magazine and
Committee Report ’ (150 pages, 20 full-page
colour photos, 30 half-tone plates, on subcription only), in other words,

the Chevalier

par excellence who would not carelessly
gallop down Delhi Avenue overturning prams
and knocking down cycles with a merry song
on his lips, landing up in the laboriously

raised rose-bed of a resident researcher (it
seems the Viper has stung me after all).
However, the IITanian could not foresee that
something similar would happen soon after
when someone on horseback came galloping
down Delhi Avenue—apparently because he
couldn’t keep the animal from doing so—causmg a scooter unfortunate enough to share

Delhi Avenue with him, to dash into a cycle

and leave the area to be occupied by Messrs.
Bacillus 86 Co.
With reference to the Institute, in parti-

injuring the three people involved, we are
happy to say, only slightly. Our Chevalier
par excellence living up to the Code of
Honour of all gentlemen on horseback, would
certainly have turned back and enquired if

cular, the none too clean messes of the various

he could be of any assistance.

hostels will be ideal breeding ground for the

however, our horseman who seems to have

orders or cheques from home.)

germs, not to mention the stagnant pools

3. Make him sign a bond of service with
his ﬁrst employer for a period of at least
ten years. (The penalty for default of bond
to be quite high.)
4. Increase unimportant paper work to
make the young engineer feel quite important. Being still a child it will be easy to

spread all over 'the Campus. The well-water
supplied to the hostels will be the ideal
carrier, and cholera will be second only to

cared tuppence for the victims of his escapade.
Not very sportsman like, that !

inculcate in him the impression that engineering practice is nothing but signing papers
and sending them through paper channels.

Yours etc.
PARAMESWARAM.
N.C.C .

Sir,
As a representative of I and II Year may I
bring out the following faCts of N.C.C.
After 7 hours of lectures we have to got to

hurry to the parade ground at 4-30 p.m. and

which may have ideas of blossoming in the
wide, open spaces of Velacheri, will drop them

Campastimes News Service.

the news in Campastimes as far as propagat—

ion is concerned.
We are fully aware of the necessity of a
hospital like this. But we fail to understand
why it has to be shifted to this area which till

now was so proudly dubbed the ‘rising
educational-cum-industrial centre of Madras’.
*
a:
are
On March 31,- the following notice was
distributed personally to all Heads of Departments and the German Professors:
‘All the Heads of the Departments are
requested to meet the undersigned at 7.15

A.M. tomorrow (1.4.. 1963) at his residence to
discuss some important matters relating to
the National Emergency ’. The signature of

Smiles
Smile a little, smile a little,
As you go along,
Not alone when life is pleasant,
But when things go wrong.
Care delights to see you frowning,
Loves to hear you sigh;
Turn a smiling face upon here
Quick the dame will ﬂy.

not able to fare well in the incessant periodi-

the Director was meticulously and effectively
forged by tracing it out from the ‘ Institute
Magazine.’
This, however, did not deter
some Professorsﬁlndian as well as German—
from getting up earlier than usual and whizz—
ing over in their cars. Campzzrtz'mer sincerely

cals of I.I.T.

regrets not to have had its photographer on

With your grief to sup P
As you drink. fate’s bitter tonic,

My humble opinion is that we can serve
our country by proper production of technical
brains for which this institute is meant, the

the spot. But one consolation remains. The
‘Institute Magazine’ (which so carefully

Smile upon your undone labour;

we are let out at 7 p.m. 10 hours of strenuous
work (7 hours of mental strain and 3 hours

of manual labour) imparts nothing but early
sleep and we are not in a position to concentrate on our studies and as a result we are

other side, i.e. building up of the army being
taken care of by other non-professional
students who have got less work to do.
It is hardly a month for the Annual Examination which decides the fate of a student,
and we are not ﬁnding time to prepare for it.

If the authorities assure us of promotion for
those who attend N.C.C. regularly, we are

2

Not so,

ignored out existence) was of some use after
all!
The Second Year boys were let off for,
always at their disposal.

I hope that the

authorities will consider this matter and do the
needful.
Yours etc.
ONE AFFECTED.

Smile a little, smile a little
All along the road;
Every life must have its burden,
Every heart its load.

Why sit down in gloom and darkness
Smile across the cup.
Not for him who grieves
O’er his task waits wealth‘ or glory ;

He who smiles achieves.
Though you meet with loss and sorrow
In the passing years,
Smile a little, smile a little
Even through your tears.
N. P. NARAYANAN.

