[Aer I5th{|963

CAMPASTIMES

6

.{

' The Psychology#(Continued from page 2)

gene

l

slip of paper and then begin doing the actual

people from ,their ancient obscurity to a new
era of self-respect. British might faltercd
and fumbled. The Indian villager, for the
ﬁrst time, walked with his head on

’1 HE newspaper ofﬁce for which I work is
situated in the centre of the busy city of

Enthusiasm is liable to be seduced and
plagued by a thousand destructive forces. In
India, as everything else including life, it
suffers a high rate of mortality. It is always

the few who attempt great things while the
many might eventually applaud. The brave
man dares while the coward stands aside,
and ultimately falls down and worships.

Sometimes, a lot of noise is produced Only to
die down. The monuments of human achieve—
ment are a standing witness of silent endeavour and sustained inner enthusiasm.

Noise,

like a bubble, bursts into nothingness. In the
Japanese people, we have the living example
of eo-ordinated enthusiasm functioning creati-

vely and silently. True enthusiasm never
turns dim under the burden of strain and
stress.

BY S. BUKHT

his

shoulders.

Misguided

enthusiasm

does more

Delhi. For the better part of the day, the
place is found humming with sound. But
away from the harsh sound or horns, ina
little room at the end of a small corridor is my
ofﬁce. Once you are inside the door the
screeching of tyres and hooting of horns are
only faintly audible.

I was very fortunate in getting into this
ofﬁce, because oftenjournalists who have been
newly admitted in any company have to work
under trying circumstances. However, our
boss was a kind-hearted man and since the
ofﬁce position had been lying vacant, it was
allotted to me. Perhaps it was because I was
new to the place aswell as to the work, that the
people were extremely helpful. They did
everything to encourage me in my job which
was to write short feature stories for the

harm than good. Enthusiasm must be
directed through disciplined channels of
knowledge and awareness—a consciousness of

the staff and Christmas was just two days

our failures as well as of our strength.

ahead.

The Chinese invasion of India created a
state of national emergency. The enthusiasm
of the people to rise as one man against the

Chinese menace knew no bounds. The
paramount need of sustaining the pepole’s

paper.
Amonth had elapsed since Ihad joined
I looked forward to it very much

since it would be the ﬁrst holiday sinceI had
begun to work, and since as yet Ihad not

seen the whole of the city, I planned to go
for a pleasure ride.
Unfortunately, all my plans were shattered
that afternoon. The editor called me and
told me that he wanted two stories from me

something else.

pretensions taking advantage of the national

something special.

or whether it has been completely watered
down by the gutter. The enumeration of

for that week.

Besides I knew that ifI

were to make some progress in my tank, I

should be prepared to work overtime.
Back at my little ofﬁce I tried to ﬁgure
out something with a background of Christmas. I rackcd my brain for a story for

parties does not fully answer the question
whether the immeasurable enthusiasm that

following day, quite determined to ﬁnish at
least one of my stories, I set to work on it.

all of us actually witnessed and felt has been
mobilised fully for national and social ends,

already thought of the plot and all I had to

India has been allowed to die a natural
death?

Where has this enthusiasm gone?

Why? Has it brought about a new day in
our national history ?

The job was not too difﬁcult since I had
do was to bang away at the keys of my typewriter. However, with all the shaping and
reshaping it took me a complete day to ﬁnish
my ﬁrst story. I had yet one more to write
and it was already Christmas Eve.

Has it welded us like

As I was pacing the ﬂoor‘of the room try-

the Rock of Gibraltar ? If the response was
inadequate and even if part of this enthu—

ing to think up something, a sudden idea

siasm was allowed to dissipate at dead ends,

the upshot will be dismal.

Within another four

hours of tiring work I managed to ﬁnish it just

in time to be checked over and then go into
print. It was Christmas Eve. Time, 7—30 pm.
I stepped out of the building into the chill
air. The chillness seemed to slap me in the

face and I was fully awakened from the
pleasant world of ﬁction to the modern world
of noise and tension. That year the Christ—
mas crowd, in spite ofthe cold, was large and
merry and the trafﬁc was swelling up every
minute. Ihad to wait for quite some time
before I was able to cross over. On the other

street opposite to our ofﬁce was a sweetmeat shop.

‘barﬁ’.

Ipaused to buy a packet of

While the shopkeeper was weigh-

ing out the sweets, a light and small ﬁgure

pressed against the show—case window watching the sweets with hungry eyes. The girl
caught me watching her and looked at me
eyes. I could stand anything in this world,
but there was one thing that I hated most of
all, and that was seeing children hungry and
starving. I had experienced it all years before
and I knew what it felt like.
She watched me intently as I took the
sweetmeat packet from the shopkeeper. I
could not but feel a little bit guilty and so
going towards the little girl, I offered her
some. She hesitated, looked up into my face
and when she saw my reassuring smile,

decided to take a piece. I watched her as
she ate ﬁrst slowly and then more and more
quickly, her face beaming with happiness.
When she had ﬁnished the ﬁrst piece she

So I agreed to think up

hours and yet I could ﬁnd no solution. At
the end ofthe day, I found that I had not
yet got started on my regular feature. The

one came across in every nook and corner of

working straight away.

One of them would be the

usual feature but the other he wanted me to
write was to be something about Christmas. I
didn’t want to tell him that I had planned

things that are being attempted or the actual
achievements as pointed out by interested

Is it: true that this genuine enthusiasm that

typing. But since it was getting late and the
printers were waiting for my story, I got

with a face that almost brought tears into my

enthusiasm that burst forth so spontaneously
cannot be over-emphasised.
Our .lawans
poured forth their lives in a supreme and ever
memorable sacriﬁce. The rich and poor alike
donated their all apparently without any
reservation. The forces for integration were
making great headway. A great many
emergency put on new garbs and paraded in
the high and by-ways. But the question of
questions is whether this unlimited national
enthusiasm has met with a proper response

about the ﬁrst Christmas itself P It is usually
my habit to note the points of my story on a

merely looked down on the ﬂoor moving
one of her feet slowly sideways.
‘ Go ahead,’ I said trying to sound gentle,
‘take another piece.’ At ﬁrst she didn’t
move and then slowly she picked Out a
sweet from the box I was holding.
‘ Waiting for mummy? ’ I asked.
She didn’t reply but merely shook her

head. I ought to have realized that before.
No mother would have left her child out in
the Cold with those ﬂimsy clothes on.
‘ What are you doing out here ?’ I asked,
handing her the box of sweets, which she
acknowledged with a beautiful smile.
‘I am just watching the people. They
look so happy,’ she paused for a moment as
though trying to recollect something, ‘but

after all they should be happy today.’
“ What’s your name i’ " I asked.

‘Aren't you happy?’ she asked looking
up at me.

ﬂashed into my mind. It was just a fraction
ofa second but in that instant I knew what
the story would be about. Why not write

‘Of course, I am,’ I replied truthfully,

‘ but I want you to tell me your name.’
‘ 0h,’ she said, ‘just call me Jane.’
I felt that she was trying to avoid all pers-

Enthusiasm is a means to an end. What
is the end we are striving for? Although
the Chinese menace has come and gone for

and our future largely depend upon this

onal questions and so in spite of the fact that

the time being at least, the total mobiliz—

heroic and soul-absorbing attempt to assess

ation of this unprecedented enthusiasm to—
wards our ultimate goal is still the lingering

this emotional factor and divert it into
creative channels before it dies a natural
death.
'

I was eager to know more about her, I did
not ask her any further questions. Previously, when I had come out of the ofﬁce, I had
been feeling very tired and dejected but now

challenge that the nation faces.

Our history

the presence of this girl sent a strange wave
within me. Suddenly I felt wonderfully re-

"How is your daughter today?"
"There are so many doctors in our'campus. Not
one was able to cure my daughter. 'At last,I
to
hear,a real doctor has come
campus."
stay in the

freshed and happy.

We stood there before the shop, before I
ﬁnally asked her,

‘ Well Jane, why don’t

you take a vralk along with me?

It might

warm you up.’

Without saying anything she caught my
outstretched hand, and we quickly moved
towards the park at the far end of the street.
When she had put her hand into mine, I
noted how cold they were.

At the end of the street from where we
were to cross to the park, was the clothes

shop. In the show-case were displayed several
types of clothes, most of which were for

children.

In the show-case towards the left

was a little model of a child exhibiting a

woollen pullover.

This little display caught

the attention of my little Jane.

She stared

at it and tears began to ﬁll her eyes. She
didn’t say anything, but as she was about to
turn and follow me she saw a child wearing
the same pullover pass just a little distance

(Continued on page 8)

