April 15th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES

9

Foreign Export—(Continued from page 3)

the people on the Earth, because they are—«so

matters. But the one matter on which the
contract was not silent, was the question of
remuneration which was considerable by any
standard. And this was a point which the
expert did not overlook.
For the next six months, the expert was
taken on an extensive bullock-cart tour of
Mangoland. He insisted on seeing every
nook and corner of the State, and as this
could not be done in six months, his contract
was extended for another six months, and the
remuneration was doubled. When he, ﬁnally,
returned to the capital, all Mangoland was
there to receive him and accord him a hero’s
welcome. He, however, refused to make any '
statement on his ﬁndings, as he had to analyze
and co-ordinate all the information he had
gathered.
His contract was again extended to enable

like ourselves. We sent our space-ships—
you call them ﬂying saucers. They landed
in parts with no civilization, but still some of
—our people were seen, because they are
about eight feet tall. We learnt your langu—
age and tried to speak it, Language brains

him to make a detailed report on the proposed
harbour. The report was a long discourse on
the considerations that go into the selection
of a suitable site for a harbour and its actual

construction.

He ended his report on a

rather pessimistic note, as he was forced to

come to the conclusion that a harbour for
Mangoland was not a very feasible proposition. The reason he gave was that Mango~

do the translating and teaching on Mars. We
wanted to make contact with you. I was
short like the people on the Earth, and I was
sent to bring you~safely to Mars. We

want to be your friends.

I liked you from

the beginning and tried to help you. We
Martians are two hundred years ahead of you
in science. We want you to learn more about

rocketry.

Now,I am taking you to live. . .’

she hesitated and seemed confused.

Don

tried to encourage her with a ‘ Yes 3’ Daisy
continued with an uncertain voice but in a
diiferent tone, ‘ . . . with us. You will learn
more about us. Then we will go back to the

Earth—if you want. You can then try to
ask your friends to make contact with us.’
They were disturbed by General Drake

Clues

shouting at the top of his voice, ‘ Yes, we

Aaron
4. See 1 down
8. It’s her sin maybe, but obviously he
shines (6)
9. Conquer (8)

want to make contact with the Martians!’
Don said a curt ‘ Yes, Sir!’ and‘reduced the
volume of the TV.

Daisy carried on in a more normal voice,

land was land-locked and had no exit to the

‘Now, we are going to the—Interplanetary

open sea. He, of course, did not forget to
support his ﬁndings which the unassailable
evidence of a proper map.

Space Station.

From there we shall proceed

in a Hyperdive Space-Ship which goes at half

the speed of light.

10. Ate locus maybe to kiss (8)
11. When you are at the end of this, you

We will go to Mars and

-—’ Her voice trailed off,
Don looked up. Their eyes met and Daisy
looked away.
.

Space Pilot—(Continued)

SQUARE DANCE No. 5

seem quite lost (6)

12. Pirbright of Wodehousian fame (8)
13. Net reign—not leaving (8)
16. In a plant it’s a banana (8)

He woke up late in the morning and got

busy preparing for the launching of the
rocket. At 10 a.m. he walked to the beautiful, majestic rocket poised on its launching

pad.

He did not notice the large gathering

cheering him as he climbed into the lift.
Only 27 years old, Don was tall and handsome. He was the youngest of the team of
twelve astronauts under training.
The seat was constructed to his size. An—
other seat was lying vacant beside him (the

rocket had originally been designed for two
astronauts). The long countdown had begun :
10....9....8....7....6....5....4.... 3 ..
..2 . .1.... . The rocket shuddered and
remained very still for a few moments. Then
it began to rise and gain speed. The gravity,
now 8g, pressed him down into the soft seat.
He had reached the stratosphere. Then
the force was 1g again as the ﬁrst stage was
jettisoned. This process was repeated thrice
and suddenly he found himself in free fall,
With the same suddenness his controls grew

hazy.

He changed course.

He saw General

Drake, Chief of Staff, Project Moon, on his

TV screen shouting at him to turn the
rocket into course. The rocket went further
out of course. A picture built up in his mind.

rage.
Don trembled with unknown fear when
something soft touched his shoulder. He
tried to jump, but he was still

down to his seat.

strapped

He gasped when he turned

fainter. He was trembling. The other ofﬁcers
in

the room

showed pallid countenances,

as if they had seen a ghost. The General
was shouting for Don but without response.
Don was busy. The General's voice had by

Slowly he said, ‘ You there ? ’

now become a hoarse whisper. He sat there
like a man come out of a grave. Then he
saw Don get up and say hesitatingly, ‘ I—

‘Surprised, Don? Didn’tI tell you—last

I love you, Daisy! ’

and saw Daisy, dressed in a peculiar looking
Martian space suit, smiling at him.

‘Keep on the present

The screen was very faint now. Still, he
saw Don move towards the girl. They embraced, he saw their lips meet, and then the

The General was still shouting, but they

image blurred away as the screen went black.

did not listen to him.
Don was not so afraid of Daisy now. Suddenly he felt deeply interested in her. He
wanted to know about her life. His fear had

For a moment, General Drake sat at the
edge of his chair holding the sides with all
his might. Then he got up shakily and stumbled to the other room and fell on to a bench.
He asked the technician in a hoarse, angry

night?’ She had the same sweet, mocking
smile on her face.
course,’ she said.

gone, but he still had that feeling of awe.
She came and sat down in the vacant seat
beside him.

Finally he said, ‘ Tell me more about you,

19. Eat Tubal and set up a table ! (8)
21. Nation to smear with oil (6)
23. Frankly speaking! (8)
24.. This lover was advised,
‘ Turn you where your lady is,

. ‘ And claim her with a loving kiss ’. (8)
25. Die lex, was sent away from the land (6)
26. The French Setter, jumbled to settle

again (8)
Down
1. 4(across) and 20. This ﬂag certainly seems
studded with heavenly bodies (3,4,8,6)
2. Ruin the scion, and do what the Chinese
have done ! (9)
3. It’s on your trousers and the batsman has

to be in it (6)

voice, ‘ What happened to the screen?’
The technician was trembling all over. He
could not answer for a few seconds. Then he
managed to say, ‘ Sir, we - - we - - lost con-

01+

not move the stick but stared at- the TV
screen where he could see the General shouting and waving at him frantically, white with

General Drake was frantic but did not speak
till Daisy has stopped. He was desperate.
He had tried every means to bring back the
rocket—ship or to set it back to course. It had
all been in vain. The screen was growing

. The penultimate one (in Golf) (11,4)
. The year in Latin before the London Art
Gallery, to comment upon (8)

\IO\

It was Daisy. Was she affecting him in any
way? He was frantic. He froze and could

. This precedes the groan in wrestling (5)

. Sea rent from the East (7)
14. Erie’s all mixed up-with a list to make it
look more natural (9)
15. The ﬁsherman may do this (4,1,3) and a

Daisy.’
She started speaking in her strange accent,

tact! ’

but he accepted it because he seemed to
understand her better now.
‘I am the daughter of one the greatest

was, ‘ Damn you . . . . that face! ’ before he
fell heavily on the bench his brain in a tur-

20. See 1 down

Martian scientists, Don.

moil.

22. Progeny to ﬂow out 2 (5)

I love space and

General Drake got up, and all he could say

.

Spanish dancer certainly needs one (8)
17. Eagle in the family line P (7)
18. The sappers are all upset about talk,—a

hunter maybe (7)

