Th7 wnrh0hgy is amw wavghany of Mg up the (all (Italic.
These ten years have witnessed the birth of an institution and the evolution o). a set

of conventions which? will gradually become a tradition. ' The ﬁrst ﬁne rapture is past
now, and with it the trials and tribulations of moving into a deer park and building a
campus on z't—arduous, but piquant. Already there is a pleasantly nostalgic
air about the II T which was when Campastimes came into being—three hostels,
administration and library \ in the BSB, a dirt track of a road from the gate,
and a water supply that made last year’s drought look like a cloudburst. A far cry
from the large and well-ordered campus which we now take for granted.
Leaﬁng through the earlier volumes of Campastimes, one neither expects
nor ﬁnds a chronicle of the period. Surprisingly, however, the general trend of writing,
the comments, the asides, the jokes, capture the spirit of the times. This is not a
historical survey, and much that is of purely historic interest has been ruled out as not
being readable enough. It is not in terms of the major events, usually oﬂicial, that we
want to represent the decade. Instead we have tried to show what life was like here
in the ’sixties, as viewed and described by some of the more articulate natives.
It has been pointed out to us that the articles in Campastimes are of indiﬂerent literary merit, not justifying the publication of an anthology. Even if we
were prepared to commit ourselves regarding relative literary merit, which we are not,
we would retort that literary merit is not the primary criterion of this anthology any
more than historical interest. We looked for pieces with a certain signiﬁcance, a
certain standard of writing, and, above all, a high level of general interest and
readability.

In other words, we chose the articles which we liked best, for in the last

analysis, that is the only basis on which one can make an honest choice. We hope
you will like them, too. Whether they are of literary merit or not, we will leave you
to decide.

Campastimes has usually stayed happily on the lighter side of things,
though with undertones of seriousness. If, glancing through this selection, you are
able to think, ‘ It was fun ’, or, in another tense, ‘ It must have been fun ’, we feel we

have come part of the way. But we have also tried to epitomise the spirit of an age,
which is rather more dzﬁcult. And if you catch even a faint whzﬂ of this elusive
fragrance, we shall have succeeded beyond our expectations.

