C’ampest/mas
l l T

NEWS & VIEWS
SURJI’I‘ RANDIIAVA.

MADRAS
Sir,

ﬁﬁ:

(“a mposlimes“

It is with the sole privilege of being an
ll'l‘ian that the author has expressed the
following opinions (entirely opinions and
nothing else) as to the exact places in the
structure of Campastimes where cracks have

(V/hp <15 ﬁ/A?§

developed—and having spotted these localities

On August 2, 1962, all the professors of
our Institute were informed that Dr
A. N. Khosla, member of the Planning
Commission, and Director of the National
Institute of Sciences of India, would be visi-

ting the IIT on the 4th morning.

Subsequently on the third, Dr M. V. C.
Sastri was at the airport to receive the important visitor, Dr A. N. Khosla being a
Governor-designate, the Raj Bhavan car was

[Hm/DDSLL/mes

already waiting for him. As soon as one
important looking person got off the plane,
and moved towards the waiting car, Dr
Sastri approached him and requested him to
visit the Institute the following morning.
Came the fourth morning. Sharply at nine
:1 big car drew up,and out stepped an impressive-looking gentleman dressed in khadi. He
was immediately taken to the Director’s
office, and Mr Ramaswamy proceeded to
explain the layout of the Institute. Slightly
raised brows could be observed when the dis-

Co mﬂagéz‘mes

of failure it is sincerely hoped that remedial
measures could easily be taken.
Campastz'mes, has now developed into a
veritable battleﬁeld where constant personal
accusations and counter-accusations have a
free play—where A could evoke B’s embarrassment to make C (and sometimes, very rarely
D) have his share of cynical laughter—with
total and Complete disregard to the gaping
ignorance of the other seventeen hundred
readers who—
r.

W...

2.

Birth of your “Camp”-“Paninies”
3.

tinguished guest wanted to know when the
Institute was actually started, but an explanation was soon found: he wanted to test the
professor’s memory. Brows, however, were
raised to their maximum extent when he
showed a stern disinclination to visit the

workshops. Even Dr Kraus’ cajoling,‘ ‘ But
they are very nice, and the machines are
very modern.’ aroused next to no enthusiasm
in Dr Khosla who would rather visit the
hostels.
During tea—or should we say: lingering

overa glass of fruit juice, Professor Sampath,
disturbed by misgivings, cautiously began to
tap Dr Khosla’s secretary and the information
he eventually received caused a near furore.

Dr A. N. Khosla was actually Sri Mehdi
Nawaz Jung, Governor of Gujerat and Chair-

man of the General Lalit Kala Akademi. Too
late to put those-wise, who took the wrong
Dr Khosla through laboratories and workshops.

As luck would have it, a few minutes later
the real Dr Khosla arrived. ’ There were not
many people left to receive him, but the credit goes to Mr Dubay for having brought
the situation under control.

The day was saved by the canteen people
producing, somehow or other, a fresh plate of
sandwiches. Rumours saying that those Were'
the leftovers of the previous party have .tobe rejected as libellous.
Moral : never be in a hurry to meet a guest;
Let him come up to you. ,
In light of the all-too-frequent power
breakdowns, Sarosh Talukdar most wisely
remarked that the height of frustration is
studying for a Transmission and Distribution
examination b candle light. '
’

I am happy to say that our appeal has
met

with some

politician

4.

response—I am not

enough to use the

word

‘ Overwhelming ’—making the future of
Campastimes a little brighter. It is on
the way to becoming your monthly with
every new name added to those that are
well-known by now, too well-known, as

some off-stage critics recently remarked.

endeavour to uphold the legacy of
the IITian spirit,
endeavour to direct the high quality
IITian sense of humour along
proper channels,
endeavour to keep alive this cat-0nthe-fence, non-proﬁt making (loss
making) item, and
to curl up in bed and enjoy such good
reading.

The editorial people, one should realize, are
not at fault at all. It is you and I as readers
and contributors, who must grasp the coat and

jump out of this unbecoming rut, without
further delay.
There is an utter lack of contributions and
this is the obvious reason for the poor quality
of the articles—a hungry man has to eat whatever he gets. All articles—irrespective of

Nothing against critics and their
criticism. On the contrary, we intcntionally invite them to voice their
opinions. But why off~stage ? Campastimes
has reserved space for them, unlimited
(and uncensored) space. Why take a
member of our .Board aside with a hush-

or any other factor, are necessarily plunged
into the press and onto the paper. This is
also the reason why the Local of page one,
becomes his true self on the second, an

hush ‘ Boy, Two Views was the best you

Englishman on the third, 3 drawing instrument

their quality, implications, spirit, decorum

ever brought out ’ or ‘ You know, that

on the fourth, a Greek letter on the ﬁfth and

Editorial was a stinker’?

so on.

Is it that

much trouble to sit down and write us
a letter saying what you appreciated and
‘ what you didn’t?
I am sure you
wouldn’t hesitate a minute to pen out a
utwo-page letter (single space), if your
landlord accused yOu of having ruined
his walls by driving ten-inch nails into
them at random (which, of course, you
haven’t).

Surely the IITian does not require lectures
on right and wrong, surely the IITian does
not require the coaxing of his mummy to take

positive steps towards improvement, and
surely the IITian can show this to the outside
world P
Emma».

' Your criticism is just as valuable for
us as your contributions.
So don’t
hesitate and send us your Letter to the
Editor.
'
Yours etc.,
The Publisher.

One half 0 the Gymkhana notice boards
in the Civil Engineering Block tells me that I
owe Rs. 1.40 for blueprints, that a symposium of leather technology was held in the
ﬁrst week of August, and that on the third
of the. same month, I was granted a day’s

daze. A remarkable capacity for switching the

has the

brain from one topic to another was required.
To cite an example, mornings my mind was
crammed with Moorish inﬂuence on Spanish
architecture, and probablynatural frequen-

Gymkhana extended its activities to all these

cies of engine crankshafts, whereas afternoons

ﬁelds P

found

A lot of haze and dust disappeared from
the atmosphere when we saw the last of
the terminal examinations. There is no denying the fact that two tests a day were enough
to sap the life out of the bravest. After a few
of them, one just carried on in a sort of

pentodes, crane hooks, and things like that.

leave.

,Since when, may

I

ask,

me

turning

my beacon

towards

, I am afraid that this being the end of the

year as far as we all are concerned, I have
just about run out'of everything to put down.
I’ll sound off by wishing everybody the best
of luck in the annual branding and slaughter.

We always welcome your suggestions

The S/aﬁ’, ‘ Campasfimes ’

