CAMPASTIMES
[Cope started writing relatively late in his incarceration in this vale of
tears. But once he got going, he went at it hammer and tongs, and
caricatured just about anybody who was good for a few laughs. Then he
tried his hand at turning out the Cup, and met with considerable success.

by Gope

Editors had an easy time with him .' he coughed up as many columns as
were demanded of him well in time to catch the ever overdue issues.

He

even did his own proof-reading, but then, he aimed at perfection.

A

vanishing breed, his.]

It was a beautiful morning back in 1963—-

had passed him we would probably have gone

wet grass, dew-laden ﬂowers and all the rest

Shukcspcarian and said, ‘ What bloody manner
of man is this?’ but milkmaids, like I was
saying, scream and yell.
'In the days before Moses began spending
l|l$ surplus energy building V-shapes he was
accustomed to borrow bikes and go for long
rides. He was returning from one on a Satur-

of the poet stuff. The cattle from Velacheri
and Taramani were walking along lazily down

the path behind Tapti Hostel to the milking
shed. Behind groups of them came the
milkmaids in-charge. It was a morning to
warm the heart.

PONNIAH MOSES

If you could throw in a

lone ﬂute-player, sitting

with

his back

against a tree, Bhavanagari could shoot a
couple of documentaries for the Films

Division right there.
Suddenly the morning air was ﬁlled with
the scream of a frightened woman (just like in
movies). Frightened women, as a rule,
scream and let it go at that. But our heroine
was no run-of-the-mill woman—after the
scream she let ﬂy enough bad language in 5
minutes to last an ordinary man half his
lifetime.

Now it had come to pass that just about
the time the milkmaids were approaching
Tapti, Ponniah Moses Vedamanikkam had

woken up, like Abu Ben Adam, from a
deep dream of peace, stood up, stretched
and decided to look at something beautiful,
heart-warming and cheery.

So he went over

to his mirror and gave himself a once-over
from top to toe.

He felt that he could easily mix without
comment in a gathering of Adonis, Eros and
such other Greek gods. That is, if he

happened to be passing by when such a
meeting was in progress they would roll out

VEDAMANIKKAM

day afternoon and found a horde of cars parked
outside his hostel. It was the parents coming
to collect the kiddos for the week-end. When
parents come to boys’ hostels to collect the
boys, it is inevitable that the sisters and
other girls in the family tag along. Moses
saw the girls. He looked again . . . . there
was no mistaking the invitations in their eyes,
he felt.
So he began to pedal with renewed vigour.
What little V-shape had been built up was
put up for show. Then, drawing in his
paunch to accentuate the V, he began pedalling,

down the 45° incline towards Tapti.
By now Moses and bike were just a. ﬂash
well down the incline. Moses was still
watching the girls and the girls were watching
Moses’ antics. He was wondering what the
girls would have been thinking of him. They
would probably be saying to themselves, ‘ My
hero ’ I thought Moses applying the brakes.
The bike had no brakes. In the hurried
affair that life has become these days, people

often forget to mention such trivials.
There was time only for his face to register
surprise and then horror. Then it was all over.

the red carpet, sound the trumpets, ﬁre the

The granite wall which had been looking for-

gun-salute and welcome him in as one of ‘ the
boys’. Perhaps you don’t know it but there is

ward to a peaceful week-end met the tyre, steel
and Moses’ head in rapid succession. The
front wheel of the bike met the chain-guard
and by now Moses had gone over the wall
and met a few bikes parked there, and they

a club the members of which go around believ-

ing that MoSes looks like Steve Reeves below
his neck and Omar Shariff above. As far as I
know it has only one member. Don’t get me
wrong—I’m not saying that Moses is a narcissist—it’s just that he dislikes a hotwater
bath, because it clouds the bathroom mirror.

Moses decided that he would look inﬁnitely
hotter with a V-shaped torso. When he
walked down the aisle' in his church, he
wanted people to gasp and say that there went
a man with a V-shape. V-shapes don't grow
on trees. To commission one you have to do
a lot of Corny exercises and Moses decided to

start right away. ‘ I will not go to Church for
the next three months ’, he mused, ‘ And by

then, by God, I will have a V-shape.’
Then dressed after a fashion popularised -

by the natives of certain South Sea islands,
posing for the National Geographic, . Moses

climbed to the head of his bed and holding
onto the window-bars..started doing a sort of
vertical push-ups. If Shelley were to pass him
then, he Would have said, ‘ Hail to thee, Blithe.
Spirit ', and he would have meant it.

_

Milkmaids are people of the world. They
can take nasty things of life in their stride.

Ilt' GYMkmlNA

_

‘

’_——'..

But theydraw the line somewhere—and having
tosee underclothed undergrads hanging about
~ the window-barsearly in “the morning, doing
”informal stooge acts, is one place they felt a
line ought be drawn. If it was you or I who

”__

llllllllllll lil l l

Mano-1a»

Announcing 111(5),,

HASH avenger)?"

Slimming Pool-..
'4-

*‘tI"

Willin

all met the good earth. (Such a lot of social
activity in such a short time, no ?) Anyway
he picked himself up, with the air of aman
who can be checked—yes, but vanquished,

never, and though he felt like something
excavated from the tomb of one of the earlier
Ptolemies, he puffed up his chest and made

way to his room where he

collapsed.

Which all goes to show that there are ways
and ways of impressing people.

Moses is a citizen of Toothukodi and is
quite a man-about-town there—at least ever
since the annual binge of the palmyrah
climbers back in 1964. where, I’m told, he won
the Junior’s at toddy tapping.
Before I forget, do you know how girls

get colds ?
wet?

Showers and rains and all things

No, says Moses.

If girl A has a cold,

it must be because he was talking to A’s
friend B, and A saw that and went and cried
herself to sleep, waking up the next morning
with a nasty cold.
‘
'
It is past midnight. Moses is in bed reading the latest James Hadley Chase. On the

cover is the usual picture of a murdered girl,
in bikini, lying in an open grave.

Moses

closes the book and looks at the girl. Oh my
God, he ﬁhinks, there is no mistaking the
invitation'jn her eyes!

