CAMPASTIMES

JESUSPEND YOUR BLABOMINABLE
TWINTERLOCUTIONS AND
EXPEDITE YOUR TWIXIT, OF?
STOP YELLING AND SCRAM
And fast.
SOMETHING must be done about the English language.
g that
Every year, tens of millions of words are written. , (oncedin
s of
most of them can be consigned to the trash—bin still thousand
s all
useful new books in English are publislted annually. Librarian
over the world are biting their nails and tearing their hair, trying'to
s
cope with this exploding influx. Meanwhile libraries and trash~bin
Books
alike bulge and groan. It is as bad as the population problem.
the
iterally seem to be breeding books. Take Shakespeare. He was
piles ot
worst sinner. He produced piles! And they in turn bred
von
criticisms, commentaries, notes and adaptations. Stratiord—upon-A
has a library entirely devoted to Shakespeare. Now come to Samuel

Boardman, the word ‘ guesstimatc ’ has been coined. Popular sciencc
ﬁction writer E.F. Russel has chosen the title ‘Diabologic' for One of

And 'Boswell and others wrote

deem it necessary to warn you that it has to be committed sometime or

biographies of Johnson. Nlany authoritative critiCisms of Boswells
biography of Johnson were published, and Boswell came to be as much

the other, unless you wish to become old maids. However, once you are

Johnson.

As we all know, he wrote.

Hesketh

Pearson,

wrote a

clever chap,

discussed as Johnson.

So

biography of Boswell.

If anyone writes a biography of Hesketh

Pearson, I think I will strangle him.

Thank God, Pearson is dead and

_

can’t write his autobiography.

.

.

.

Book breeding apart, what about the literature which is being
produced at a staggering rate, as wards try to keep pace With seientiﬁc
and technical thought and development P It all adds up to one hell of
.
.
asituation.

his stories.
One day such Words will become common parlance. Hourever,
pioneers please watch your step. Syncronyms can trip you. A fellow

enthusiast once told me eagerly that ‘ equine ’ pertained to horses and
‘ ox ' is, well, just an ox. So an equinox is a cross ‘between a mare
and an ox !
Another friend of mine came up with the attractive syncronym
‘misstake ’, It sounded Very much like an invitation to body lifting.

Young ladies, don’t be alarmed. We have no such sintentions!

But we

wed, better keep a lookout on Hubby and see that he does not commit

more ‘ misstakes ’. Misstakes, we notice, are mostly a result of ‘ mandates ’.

So if demure damsels don’t wish to be harassed, they must

abolish all laws ! Diabologic, eh ?
A synCIonym-minded distant uncle of mine on the maternal side
has twins. They are the peskiest, noisieSt, most irritating ulcers I
know. But my uncle takes great pride in their spirits and mollycod~
dles them. Reminds me of the way some people treat their pet

corns.

If the two barged into the conversation, which they did simul~

In the future storing knowledge is gomg to become more and more

taneously, my uncle would say, ‘ don’t twinterrupt ! ' and let out a loud

Microﬁlming is going to help, surely ; but the real, practical

guﬂ'aw. If they said anything that wasn’t idiotic, he would turn
around to me and say, ‘ Isn’t that twinteresting,’ and let out another loud
guffaw. My uncle is famous not only for his ear splitting guffaws,

difﬁcult.

change must come about in the language itself. It has got to be com~
pressed and made precise so that more can be_ expressed in_ lesser
space and shorter time. This revolution is ineVitable, otherWise the
language will stiﬂe itself. Just as compulsory measures are bound to
come when the population explosion rouses everybody, English Will
shed its adipose when people realise that it is too obese for conveni-

but also for his blasphemous habit of prefixing every exclamation

with ‘Jesus l’. One day the twins were in high jinks. They burst
paper bags when their father opened his mouth to say something, tickled
his nose with a feather to make him sneeze, and pressed ice-cubes on

his belly, counting the number of seconds it took for him to scream.

ence in a shrinking world.

Finally, they started an argument as to who should pull his left car.

They fought furiously for its possession, hurling imprecations at each
other.

P. SUDARSAN

Even my good-natured uncle was turning red under the gills.

I quickly sensed that matters had come to a head.

I employed my

sharp telepathic and intuitive powers and predicted to myself that anyAlready imperceptible changes have taken place and the language
is rid of the frills and ﬂoridities of Shakespeare. But the solution to

the problem of unwieldy and uncertain storage of knowledge requires
a major revolution. What is the solution? Perhaps acronyms oﬁer
the clue.
Suppose you can juxtapose a set of two or .more words and get a
single word denoting the same idea ; then you are already one up in the
game. Now it remains to prune unnecessary letters and perhaps make
minor realignments of syllables for the sake of coherence and easy
pronunciation. For example, the idea ' to induce one to sin ’ is
readily conveyed by the single word ‘ sinduce '. Again, if you always

moment now my uncle would howl, ‘ Jesuspend your blabominable
twinterlocutions and expedite your twixit ’. My uncle disappointed
me sorely.

He merely shouted, ' Stop yelling and scram ! '.

Syncronyms can come to your rescue in situations where you must
be evasively truthful. A poor cousin of mine, who can lit the
syncronym bug from me, works as a gloriﬁed ﬂunkey for retired
colonel, This fastidious gentleman has a pet tabby. One day, puss
passed water on his (the colonel's) bed. Feeling personally responsible
for the mess, my harried cousin was wondering how to conceal it.

Just

then, the colonel trooped in, surveyed the beautiful scene, and yelled
in the best army manner, ‘ What the bloomin ’ hell is this ?’ ‘ S-ss-sir,’
my cousin blurted out, ‘the situation is er . . . piscatorial! ’.

‘ sinterpret’ you must be narrow-minded. Remember, it is more cheer-

I know of at least one instance of a distressed mind calmed by the

ful to grinfcr-rather than sinfer. If anyone grinforms you that you are

therapeutic values of a syncronym. A bachelor friend of mine learnt
that his girl friend was in the family way. He was worried. Soon he
became the father of a bonny baby. The poor fellow was distraught.

sinfused and why, don’t believe him : tell him that his bawdeductions
are sillogical, primmarerial, dimcompetent and ditherelevant.

Campastimu itself is a most ingenious example of these, shall we _
say, ‘ syncronyms .
And then, recall the time when the ‘ By Night ’ series of ﬁlms was
in vogue P The Word ‘ sex ’ was used to coin many a syncronym in
the ads. Here are some of the ecstatic (or rather, sexmtic) epithets
used to describe ‘ Universe by Night ’ ‘ America by Night ’, sexetera. . .
’

" sexiting ’, ‘sexational ’, ‘ sexplosive ’, ‘ sextraordinary ', ‘ sextremcly
scxy’. Well, if you wish to use ‘ sex ’ to form syncronyms the possibilitie's are ’sinﬁnite. But, no doubt, you view such tasteless sexploi-

tation with prim disa roval.
35:5 ‘
"
Syncronyms can
t across ideas which can otherWise be expressed only with diﬂiculty.

In Connoiseur’s S. F., edited by Tom

The legal position bothered him. He didn't know whether he was an
illegitimate father or the baby was an illegitimate child. Africnd,

however, consoled him : ‘ Chin up, old chap.
timate or the baby is, it’s mere syntax l’
If you invent a syncronym, it’s better to
tionary whether you have another ‘ equinox ’
is a story of an English enthusiast with a

Whether you are illegicheck up from the dicon your hands. There
negligible knowledge of

mathematics, landing in India with his wife. He had never met a
coloured person before, and didn’t know that we Indians are all

brown, more or loss. Spotting his ﬁrst Indian, he jumped up and
down with excitement and pointed out, ‘Look Emily, there goes a
tangent . .

to)

A

See this nice guy.
See the guy think.

Now see this guy.
See the guy peep.

Here 1.53. lecturer.

See one more lecturer.

Think, man, think.
Why is he thinking?

Peep, Tom, peep.

See lecturer gape

This one is happy.

Why is he peeping?

Gape, man. gape.

Whylis he happy?

He is writing a

He too is writing a

Because there are no
Why is he gaping,
With that nick smile
doubts.

_

,

periodical.
_
periodical.
And how is he doing? And how is he doing?

'3

Just see him think.

Just see him peep.

a-dripping?

Why are there no

Someone has asked
him a doubt.

doubts?
lie has let them off.

V

