CAMPAS’l‘lMES

Impure Mathematics
Once upon a time (1/!), pretty little Polly Nomial was strolling

across a ﬁeld of vectors when she came across the edge of a singularly
large matrix.

Now Polly was convergent and her mother had made it an absolute
condition that she must never enter such an array without her brackets
on. Polly, however, who -had changed her variables that morning
and was feeling particularly bad behaved, ignored this condition on

the grounds that it was insufﬁcient and made her way in amongst the
complex elements.
Rows and columns enveloped her on all sides. Tangents approached
her surface. She became tensor and tensor. Quite suddenly, three
branches of a hyperbola touched her at a single point. She oscillated
violently, lost all sense of directrix, and went completely divergent.

As she reached a turning point, she tripped over a square root protruding from an erf (error function) and plunged headlong dOWn a steep
gradient. When she was differentiated once more she found herself,
apparently alone, in a non-Euclidean space.
She was being watched, hOWever, by that smooth operator, Curly
Pi (11'); As his eyes devoured her curvilinear coordinates, a singular
expression crossed his face. Was she still convergent, he wondered.
He decided to integrate improperly at once.
.
Hearing a vulgar fraction behind her, Polly turned round and saw
Curly Pi approaching her with his power series extrapolated. She

could see at once by his degenerate conic and his dissipative terms,
that’he was bent on no good.
.
‘ Eureka!’ she gasped.
‘ Ho, ho ! ’ he said, ‘what a symmetrical little'Polly Nomial you

are. .I can see you are absolutely bubbling over with secs.’
‘ 0h Sir,’ she protested, ‘ keep away from me. I haven’t got my
brackets on.’
‘ Calm yourself, my dear,’ said our suave operator, ‘ your fears are
purely imaginary.’

‘i, i,’ she thought.

‘ Perhaps he’s homogeneous then P ’

‘ What order are you ? ’ the brute demanded.
‘ Seventeen,’ replied Polly.
Curly leercd. ‘ I suppose you‘ve never been operated on yet 2 ’ he
said.
‘ Of course not,’ Polly cried indignantly. ‘ I’m absolutely convergent.’
‘
‘ Come, come,‘ said (Iurly, ‘ let’s go off to a decimal place I know
and I’ll take you to the limit.‘
‘ Never !’ gasped Polly.

‘ EXCHLF ! ' he swore, using the vilest oath he knew. His
patienCC was gone. Cosing her over the coefﬁcient with a log until
she was powerless, Curly removed her discontinuities. He stared at
her signiﬁcant places and began smoothing her points of inﬂexion.
Poor Polly. All was up. She felt his hand tending to her asymptotic
limit. Her convergence would soon be gone forever.
There was no mercy, for Curly was a Heavy side operator. He
integrated by parts. He integrated by partial fractions. The complex

beast even went all the way and did a contour integration. What an
indignity to be multiple connected on her ﬁrst integration. Curly went
on operating till he was completely and absolutely orthogonal.

When Polly got home that evening, her mother noticed that she
had been truncated in several places. But it was too late to diﬂ'erentiate now. As the months went by Polly increased monotonically.
Finally she generated a small but pathological function which left

surds all over the place until she was driven to distraction.
The moral of our sad story is : If you want to keep your expressions
convergent, never allow them more than a single degree of freedom.

as

a

‘

1:

(Reprint from Scope, Journal of the Federation of University
Astronomical Societies)

An Eye For a Boot—(Continued from page 23‘)

was wrenched open with a horrendous crash,
It was then that I witnessed an incredible,
A geoidal mass of
stupefying spectacle.
human material literally shot out of the
room. It quivered for a moment like a globule
of quicksilver on a red-hot steel plate; then it

seemingly evaporated out of the scenery. So
quickly did it vanish that the translational
velocity would surely have transgressed all
rules of relativistic mechanics. I stood there
gaping.
U

#

That blighter I’ootsimboos sure jazzed him up
in real style,’ there was an admiring glint
in the protuberant eyes. ‘He shoved a large live
snake in the fat blimp’s room. And lots of bees
and things. The snake didn’t have any fangs,
so Poots tells me, but the bees sure had stings.
Botti’s jelly now. He’s got a phobia for such
things.’ The Speaker happened to catch
sight.of me. ‘ Speak of the Devil ! Poots,
come ’ere, tell us all about. it.’

‘There is nothing much to tell, actually.
I’d much rather 'be non-committal and let

See man pull.
Pull, man, pull.

you guys surmise what you may.’

‘ Yup. Purgative.’

Silence.
‘ All that is okay. But how're you
goin’ to escape Botti when he dons war paint
and tenderly stretches out his lovin’ hands
to wring your beeyootiful neck ? ’

‘ The poor, poor ﬁsh.’
‘ Yes, the poor, poor ﬁsh.’

Sde this nice wardenll
.GRRR.. . Grrr.:

Gnu:

Why is he pulling?
He is trying to eat

Oh, oh: The warden

And what islhd

Why is he angry?

is angry.

trying to eat?
It is Hostel Day,

Just see him pull.

All fun and gay,
And he has not been
invited.

ﬂﬂr
2

‘ He keeps cooler-water for drinking in his.
ﬂask.’
They looked puzzled. Gradually, a look of
dawning comprehension transformed Moos’
unmentionable face. ‘ You doctored it? ’

ﬂ

(Overheard in class):
‘ I say, Moos, what was all that ballyhoo
about in your hostel this morning ? ’
‘Botti was gettin’ a lil‘ bit 0’ excercise.

well-.00...

‘ There is something in what you say. But
I’ll cross my bridges when I come to them,
Right now Botti is likely to remain out of
commission for at least twenty—four hours, and
I’ll make my preparations by that time.‘
‘ How come, tWenty-four hours i’ ’
I treated them to one of my knowing winks.

—POOTSIMBOOS UNOHOO.

