CAMPASTIMES
PERSONALITIES

Z

THY—S U

r

The Germans say ‘ Klein’ is small. But
there is nothing small about Dr Klein, who
with indefatigable energy runs a one-man
department. He is the Head, Lecturer, Tutor

and Typist of the Department of German.
He takes, on an average, eight hours a week.
For the past year Dr Klein has been the man

behind the ‘timeS’. He has nurtured and
.led this journal through its initial teething
troubles, until now it is able to hold its own
anywhere.
Dr Klein’s lectures are in a class by them-

selves. He is lenient to the point of indulgence, and there is a general aura of freedom pervading the class. The more volatile
constituents of the class get an opportunity to

speaks in rather a low tone and so one has
to be all ears, else it could mean ‘ another

year’ ! He has certain mannerisms such as
grtmacing in mock pain when confronted by

of ancient Indian art such as scrolls, sculptures
and any other articles of antique value that come
his way. His house is positively littered with
massive sculptures, brass bowls and the like.

usual phenomenon to see his class dissolved

One has but to question hima bit, and he
will describe all of them, with a wealth of
detail, which would probably fascinate more
aesthetic minds. He is a voracious reader and
his miniature library would satiate any lover of
contempomry ﬁction.
Until recently Dr Klein used to drive a

in mirth.
Dr Klein had his university education in

with a spar or two with a tree, decided to

a wrong answer from a student.

Then, of

course, there is the incident, When a certain
student repeatedly pronounced ‘damit’ as
‘dammit’ and Dr Klein pulled outa toy

pistol and said ‘ Say it correctly, or I shoot !’
‘So it is not hard to believe that it is no un-

Frankfurt,

Munich

and Tuebingen. He

blue Opel station wagon which, not content
try conclusions with a buffalo which challenged
its right of way. It came out of it very much

came on a scholarship to Shantiniketan to
study Indian Philosophy, and later taught

the worse for wear and Dr Klein now drives

voice their opinion; only to get them really

German in the University of Calcutta. His

demolished by Dr Klein in his inimitable
manner. He often intersperses his lectures
with anecdotes, and more often than not in

knowledge of Sanskrit enables him to draw

a museum piece, which again is remarkably
consistent with his hobby. Consequently, he

analogies between

is temporarily in a rather ‘ cowed ’ state

grammar during the course of his lectures

though it shouldn’t be long before his ear

such cases, gets carried away ; and when jolted

(leaving most of us as much at sea as before ;

returns to rip up the HT roads once more.

back to reality by a chance remark, says

or even more so.)
Dr Klein has a passion for collecting works

rather guiltily, ‘ Where was I ..... ’ He

German and

Sanskrit

—M. v. R.

W?%W§%§§¥§%WWMM%W

.RllVlElRSlIDlE
FROIUICS
DEEDS of derring-do have recently been wrought on the banks of the

[The know-all and end-all of Campus literary activities, S. Parameshwaran,

also known in certain circle: by more slanderous names, took to dabbling
in Campastimes like a duck takes to water. Campastimes’ stock
rose at times, and fell at times, but Parameshwaran never sold out. .His
articles, always eminently readable and bang on time, have Seen Compas-

times through time: of famine and times of plenty]
quality

the gentleman in question is persuaded to eschew this

Jamuna, whose placid limpidity has been muddied by the advent of

fault and be a good little boy ...... The degrees and the methods of

‘ fresher’ —— genus student,

persuasion are numerous, and those desirous of refreshing their memo—

to whom are strange indeed the ways of HT and alien every traditional delight.
.
A noble effort on the part of the hoary seniors to initiate these
Stern laws
criminal.
branded
strangers in our ways and customs was
were passed by our di’Reqtuour of fame, and an executive body headed

ries or learning fresh approaches are reminded of the imminent
publication, ' Freshness in Freshers: Its Causes and Cures ’, a
comprehensive treatise by some of our leading researchers. Some of
the methods are calculated, but nowhere is the notion of ‘limit‘f in‘
troduced. Demonstrations and experimental studies are still in
progress at the time of writing.
These activities have given rise to a spate of controversial problems.

large herds of that transient species

by a redoubtable Waughden was entrusted with the enforcement
thereof.
Meanwhile it came to pass that Alakananda, a lesser stream,
abounded with the same game (of the same name). Another and

stricter Waughden was to ensure the safety of the denizens.
And thus it was that the clarion call proclaiming the beginning of
the hunting season —- ‘ Hey Fresher l! ’ was sounded not quite so
loudly as usual, perhaps. but every jot as ﬁrmly. And activities commenwd of which the Waughdens wot not, not heeded if they wot.
The opening gambits having been got over, and a few conventional

questions (Wise guy, eh? Witty guy, eh? Tough guy, eh? Smart guy,
are asked and the subject
'
with varying inﬂexrons)
'
eh i. . . . ad inﬁnitum
of the experiment can be classiﬁed as ‘ fresh ’ or ‘ non-fresh ’.
Generally, the guys who say, ‘ Sir, no Sir ’ to the above questions are
ry. though the ooots who placed high in the
placed in the seoon cs

four ‘ ones' in the School Cert. are reentrance exam or who
'
garded with the Eye of Suspicion.
Freshness in a fresher, unlike in a ﬁsh, is not considered a desirable

Severe measures have been demanded against those who attempt to
question other seniors. The suggestion has been made that it will be
more amusing to ‘ interrogate ' second year guys than freshers.
Resolutions have been passed that any fresher who sneaks or acts
unduly tough shall forfeit certain privileges in future years. Gentle-

manly folk hold the amusements above described beneath contempt.
Hardened souls consider the entire process extremely mild and yearn
to give it a shot in the ear with a few zippy ones they heard or did in
the NDA or St. Stephens. It is hereby proposed that these several

problems be solved, and certain deﬁnite tenets universally adopted. by
Campastimee conducting one of their famous reader-reaction questionnaires with analog computers clicking busily (or mayhap computing

noiselessly) in the background. Possible there may be a special issue
on Student-Student Relationships —--——- a breakthrough in campus
journalism.

’
— S. Pumaswmu.

