CAMPASTIMES
the summer before last. Our several generations of projection room operators have
never taken pains to show the reels in the
order the director intended them to be, nor
have

our

audiences

really

cared;

but

CARICA 'I'URE

Minu Kalappa

at

this rate the new multimillion dollar ﬁlm
about Columbus, when shown in IIT, will

begin in Manhattan and end up in the middle
of Atlantic via

Madrid,

with

Rome

and

Istanbul thrown in for kicks.
The ﬁlm club chaps must be ﬁnding it
imposSible to show ﬁlms that are approved by
all. Our audiences contain from the mest

0F 14ye aye 75"
The ostrich is a fascinating bird. It has
been known to run at speeds exceeding
45 m.p.h. It is claimed to have eaten burning

coal.

Its supple legs have enough strength

fastidious highbrows to the most aesthetically
underdeveloped. Some are so widely read in
anglican literrture that they are capable of
discovering in each word, a second meaning,

an inner meaning and meanings that are un-

meant and there are those who ﬁnd the AngloSaxon tongue utterly incomprehensible, especi—

to carry a

massive human at considerable

speed. However, it suffers from a touchingly
human weakness. When it is being chased by

ally in the form of jokes.
The central feature of our Saturday evening
entertainment is the mass participation. It is

a hunter and is losing the race, it stops sud-

denly at a sand bank and buries its head in the

as if the actors step out of the Silver Screen,

mingle with the audience and together create
sand. There, in the sesurity of darkness, its
pea-sized brain churns out an almost human
philosophy:
‘ What I cannot see,
Cannot be.’
That the students of a certain hostel should
want to stop subscribing to Campastimes
because it did not pour praise and shower
appreciation on their prize-winning performance in the inter-hostel entertainment com-

petition is quite ostrich-like, besides being
childish. Whether they subscribe or not, what
has been written has been written, published
and read and what will be written will be
written, published and read.

to close their eyes

If they wish

and convince them-

selves that nothing has been written about

them, they can go right ahead and play the
ostrich. We have the spotted deer, the katans
and now these. Campastimes is their affair as

much as it is of the columnist, who they claim
has libelled them. If they do not agree with
what has been written they are free to sing
what they think is the truth and I am sure

Campastimer will ﬁnd space for their song
of truth and any other numbers.
Whether they are going to subscribe for their
copies of Campastz'mes or not, it is a bet that
they are going to read the paper somewhere or

the other, and that is not being ostrich-like
but being very smart.
V R
O

O

O

a new version of the ﬁlm, Indignant public

opinion and the arrival of the 35 mm. have
reduced the extent of participation in recent
times, but it will always be there.

Mystery,

drama, romance and wit have never had

chance—diluted

a

unrecognizably by an in—

cessant flux of wise cracks—some undeniably
funny ; most, sickeningly sick ; some to set a
chap here fuming, a chap there blushing;
others likes ‘ Murderer Ja Raha Hai ’ inspired
spontaneously by the spirit of the occasion;

but all motivated by a sincere desire to irritate
others. Then, there are those who have got

round the irrationalities of the language and
must think aloud in their native tongues if
they are to follow the intricate plots.
If by some superb synthesis, the sophisticated and not so sophisticated are pleased,

there are the sensibilities of the newly joined

_Minu possesses a tall frame, and a jawbreaking name : Mandepanda Kalappa Kuttappa.
He has one thing in common with Jack—the

many delightful variations his name has
undergone. He is Kelappa to some; the way

Bajaj pronounces it cannot be described in
words. By far the best variation occurred at
a recent athletics meet at Rajaratnam
Stadium. A lady judge came up to our

youngsters from schools who are still in their
cocoons. Many parents have, I believe,
objected to their innocent kids being exposed
to unchaste adult movies. Parents have their
duties but even some students have complained of eroticism on the screen.

jumper Kalpana on his performance.
Minu’s all-consuming passion is ﬁlms. His
knowledge of English movies is simply
fantastic.
If all the ﬁlms he has seen were

, Perhaps there is truth in what a tagging

placed end to end, the Great Wall of China

loyalist said the other day in the Iarnuna
freshers is that you have not been introduced
to the facts of the world by your experienced

would have to move over.
Next in his interests comes bridge. He is
a very ﬁne player. (Being his partner, I can
hardly say otherwise.) He led his team to a

seniors . . . .’ Of course, how and to what
they are to be introduced is a debatable
matter.

convincing victory in last year’s tournament
in the Institute, and to an equally convincing
drubbing in an outside tournament. Reason

Hostel debate: ‘ The trouble

it

with you

contingent and wanted to compliment the high

for the latter: lack of sleep.

i

A prominent secretary swore later that he

It is said that his six-foot-odd height
and handsome ( P ) face have set many a heart

guest. The few who were dragged in subse-

If one morning you step out of your house
and ﬁnd the blazing sun not to your liking.
you can do two things. You can go in and get

quently must have guessed by now—I am
referring to the 1967-68 inauguation of the

yourself a hat and a pair of sunglasses or
if you are a man of grander vision, you can

and does not utilize his advantage. He

Gymkhana of the Indian Institute of Tech-

order a shipload of Zebra umbrellas from
Mansukhani 8: Co., Bombay, and have
them sent up from Thumba to cover up
the source of heat.’ Asking all the people
in the campus to wear dog tags to prevent
thefts in hostels belongs to the second

was the third person in the open air theatre ;
the ﬁrst two were the patron and the chief

nology, Madras—36, the only one of its kind
in Madras etc., etc. Frantic, the embarrassed
secretaries fanned out on foot and wheel in
search of ﬂesh to ﬁll the chairs. I am sure

they assured everyone that if the bowl wasn’t
bursting at its seams, it was because of the
basketball match.

The truth is, that, but for

the small and understanding crowd that had
turned up to watch the game of basketball,
the inauguration would have been what the
new president in his address labelled the

Gymkhana—unique.

If you had passed

within a mile of OAT that evening, you
would have been intercepted by a sick looking

gym member, told what a gem you were and
gently but ﬁrmly escorted to a chair. Having
rounded up a quorum, the sprightly General
Seer
went about introducing his Cabinet
with brief life-sketches. He made no new
friends among the people whose lives he
sketched that evening.
The bowl, deserted at six p.m., was,_two

ideology. It is not such a grandiose idea,
but I have a sinking feeling that an extra
pair of sharp eyes in each hostel is more

likely to solve the problem.
Happily, our hostels have very few regulations and fewer still that are obeyed. Yet,
no one can complain that we have been

painting the place red. If anything, the
leniency has been under-utilized. But for
a few stray blots here and there, it has
been a case of you-look-after-your-nose-and
-I’ll-look-after-mine.
Why new constraints

now? Why suffocate the freedom of the
forests with man-made taboos ?
It is only a rumour but someone believes

becomes extremely self-conscious when the
opposite sex expresses its admiration for hims
Even now, Balram says, the word ‘ Ginger ’
makes him turn pink. His height carries
some disadvantages, too.

him to stand in buses.

It is a torture for

He wants the trans-

port rules amended so that some seats are
reserved for six-footers only.

Thad has vowed never to remain in the
same room with Minu when the latter is
absorbing potent beverages. It is not that

Thad has joined the Temperance League.
Thad just does not want a repeat performance
of a scene of revelry enacted a few years ago
when after imbibing some of the best, Minu
gave hot pursuit to Thad. The latter had
absolutely no doubt of the dishonourableness
of the latter’s intentions and had great

difﬁculty in escaping his clutches. Minu says
he was just fooling, but Thad is not so sure.
0n the athletica ﬁeld, Minu is truly a

phenomenon. Unlike other successful ath-

that an outside hospital has lodged a comp-

letes, Minu does not believe

practice and smokes more than a chimney
does. Yet if our Institute has ever been sure
of one thing in athletics, it is Minu’s perfor-

increasing number of IIT students with
a certain type of ailment. Since when have

rise overnight, doesn't rise in IIT.’

of us are adults.

rate at which our neighbours from Velacheri
and other settlements are choosing to visit us
on Saturday evenings, we will soon need a
Circarama to accommodate them. Now that

Unfortunately, our hero is very shy

laint with the institute authorities about the

hours iater, throbbing with the piquant vitality of two thousand neurotic souls waiting
impatiently for their new 35 mm. wonder to
start entertaining them. That our 16 mm.
movies have taken something. like three years
to grow to the present dimensions is clearly
not in keeping with our motto—‘ What can’t
At the

aﬂame.

the medical colleges started turning out
doctors with white collars to go with their
white coats and bottomless pockets P What

does it matter what time of the night we
return or whether m return at all P

Most

Are not our hours, coins

and morals ours to keep and ours to expend ?
Men overrate their power to inﬂuence other

mance in the jumps.

in regular

A very unorthodox

jumper (there is really no word to describe
his action in the high jump), he uses his
height to full advantage without bothering to
adopt any of the conventional techniques.
Minn is a born sportsman. There is not
a sport he has not tried his hand at, and he

men. Of all their means, rules and regulations

has achieved good proﬁciency in every case.
His almost superhuman display of tennis at

are the most primitive and the least likely to

the Kharagpur Meet and the record-shattering

yield lasting recults. If we shall be saints,

hop-step-and—jump at the Madras Meet are

successes, and germ, let us be; If we shall
be failures, wasters and scum, let us be, for,

among the best our sportsmen have ever
achieved. With Minu as the captain, our
athletics squad will have someone who can

one thing is sure—no rules or regulations
nor their absence can change one to the
other.
—VIJAY Rannv.

be a source of inspiration.
—R. Rapisaxnsn.

