CAMPASTIMES

gmmmmmmmﬁﬁmmmmmﬁmmmmmmm.

publish its own newspaper. ‘ A monthly,
bah !’ So what? It's still a newspaper, isn’t
it ? And with some sort of a future, we hope.
But hope is all we can at present, because
it’s only a matter of a very short time that
the handful of those who make Campastimes
now, will leave the Institute with ‘ B.Tech.'
written all over their front and back. And then
what? Well, that‘s precisely what we keep
asking ourselves.
We know. not everyone of you is a writer
ofsorts, not everyone is able to put his thoughts
on paper, not everyone is an artist. But do
you, in all seriousness, want us to believe that

there are no more than can be counted by the
ﬁngers of less than two hands who are capable
and willing to contribute to Campastimer?
Do you want us to believe that there is not
one in I Year who has the ghost of a literary
vein P Or——are you, by any chance——shy? Oh,
come !
Campash'mes No. 2 has eight pages. Not
because—in spite of you! But how long do you
think can a few fellows ﬁll eight pages every

month without your contributions and suggestions i And—let’s not forget—your criticism?
Or do you want us to splash ‘ Space Donated
by Tom, Dick 8: Harry, Ltd.’ all over six
pages? Hardly attractive, don’t you agree?
Well, there you are.
So, let’s have a sample of what you know

besides B.Tech. After all, it’s ‘ your ’ neWSpaper and not only ‘ ours’.
Yours etc.
. 7/; gig/4‘44”.

cauvréfc
3 Tm“?
é V . ‘./

'\i
\

“vseweprei

HIGGINS IN INDIl—l
—TEE SQUARE.

[F
If:

Drawing inspiralions from 14)) Fair Lady, Thomas Tharu alias Tee
Square, breaks out in verse in [his dolig/z/ful little piece. It is representafive of the martian! humour and car for rhythm that made Tee Square such
a colossal success in [he page; of Campastimes.
The Scene: Outside a hostel bathroom in IIT. Higgins and a
friend are sitting on a ledge. Someone comes out.
Higgins: Look at him, a pris’ner of the gutter, condemned by
all those who mutter, ‘ By right he should be taken out and shot for
the lousy mess in which he’s left the pot.‘ (A sound from within).
Heavens, what a stink !
This is what the local population refers to as hygienic education.
Friend .' Come, Sir, I think you picked a poor example.

Higgins .' Did I P See them down in IIT, Tapti or Godavari.

3333333333333333333355§3333

that \vortl \Vent round, Il'I‘ Madras were to

Er
@1517?

This now is our second issue of (,‘mnpaslimos,
yes, ‘our' issue and, unfortunately, still n0t
‘ yours' ! We had thought it was sufﬁcient

3333333 @ﬁﬁﬁj
E:
355

")
» Az'vr/rl.

ECEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEECEEEEEEEEEEEEEIa

(:1
«12:0:

If

Leaving bathrooms anyway they like.
(Someone else comes out) I say, you’ve pulled the chain, I hope.
Reply : Vart you take me for, a dope P
Higgins .' No one taught him what that chain was really for.
In Narmada it‘s worse
You may even need a hearse ;
I’d rather use the Buckingham Canal.
Pigs living in the gutter
Just like this one.

Sound from within .' Splutter.
Higgins : I ask you Sir, what sort of life is that ?

It‘s lack of common decency that keeps him in his place.
Not his deadened sense of smell and corny face.

Why can’t the Indians teach their children how to ﬂush i‘
This squalor we adore is apt to make a sailor blush.
If you behaved as he does, Sir, instead of the way you do,
Why, you might be a ruddy Pig too.
Friend : I beg your pardon, Sir l
Higgins .' An Indian’s sense of hygiene absolutely classiﬁes him.
The moment he uses a bathroom, he makes some other Indian
despise him.
A clean mode of living I’m afraid we’ll never get.
Oh, why can’t the Indians ........ learn to ........ set a good
example,

To people whose habits are painful to your nose.
It sickens all outsiders, I suppose.
There are even places where cleanliness completely goes.
The ground ﬂoor guys don’t count it among their woes.

Why can’t the Indians teach their children how to ﬂush ?
Norwegians, Greeks and Scotsmen always make the water gush,

In France they’ll yank the thing even when they have to rush.
The French don’t care if no water comes, actually, as long as they
,
pull the chain.
But tell these guys to do it; You’re regarded as insane.
Arabians use perfumes to make the whole affair a light thing.

i The ancient Hebrew idea was an absolutely bright thing.
Why can’t the Indians
why can’t the Indians pull....
the... .chain?

Eﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁﬁ333333

3

I

I mm: OPENBOOK Femomaus!
CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEMENTS
Warning :
Some rival publications with names Calmpartimer, Campustimcs, and Campastimcs, etc.
are reported to be circulating in the country.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

It is hereby notiﬁed that any infringement of

Mechanical Engineering Department :
One of the new machines in the hydrometrics laboratory is a programmed universal pedicyclode. Employing tandem numerical control units, fully automated jig contour generator,

our registered name or a colourable umtauon

reversing tesseract stator, and a ring ﬁeld rated at 200 kw, the apparatus weighs 24} tons and was

thereof will be an offence and answerable at a
Court of Law. Look for the registered name
Camﬁanimes in original brush lettering before
you “Y
—Em'roa,
Campastmm

designed entirely by the personnel of the hydrometrics laboratory. The power system was
installed by Bessling Industrial Corp. At present, a research team led by Professor Kornie
Scbeﬂ’er is engaged in ﬁnding out what exactly the corny contraption is supposed to do.
Chemistry Department .'
Scientists of the radiochernistry section of the chemistry department have come up with

Velncheri Youth Association :

some surprising results from their studies of the earthy materials round the campus. Using a

For his services to Tamil Nadu and his
contribution to the enrichment of the Tamil

responding to two half-periods : they’ve enlarged the list of the know: rare-earths as follows :
rium
cerium
gadolinium
praeseodymium
thulium
ium
dysprosium
holmium
pandemonium
ytterbium
um
delirium
lanthanum
promethium
yttrium

high-resolution version of the Kudhuraival mass spectrograph, they’ve isolated spectral lines cor-

language in particular, the Association will
confer on Dr Nikolaus Klein the title of
“ Nikilaharya Kalaiiuan”.
-HONORARY Sirens-mar
Medics:
Wanted, urgently, eﬁcient pair of ear-plugs

to withstand self-inﬂicted, close range, high
amplitude audio bombardment.
M. Smu,
Sick Room,

GeneaP. 8. Please include a spare pair.
Vrsnons.

Wanted, desperately, second-hand high altitude breathing equipment.
Rnnoun Lono (pant I pant l)

erbium
europium

lutetium
neodymium

samariurn
terbium

ttrium
triurn

Electrical Engineering Department :
Dr Piddlah who was responsible for setting up the elaborate bioelectronics laboratory in
the electrical engineering department, has conducted some original research on the survival

indices of autophagous cells in adverse electrical environments. He has obtained remarkable
values of survival indices upto 22.87 kV, in dehumidiﬁed ambient conditions. Incidentally, he
has established that these results do not hold for larger mammals, in pa;ticular homo mandarthalis. Requiucat in pace.
Cmrpmtimu
' Technical Report

