CAMPASTIMES

1:2

come on not simply because we ﬂick a switch
but
because
there are
power stations
and generators and transmission networks.
of a balan~
more
the
The more we progress

Epitaph
I'm not quite sure how I hit upon the word
‘ epitaph ’ as a title but it may turn out to be
appropriate in more ways than one. lean
promise it's going to be as eminently unreadable as my last two articles since I've been
unofﬁcially established as Ctzinpartinns' space-

tiller.

I hope

this can be

my

parting

shot and that I need not subject anyone to 'l‘ee
Square philosophy in future.
So here beginntth an epitaph of youth and
idealism, of dreams and visions and worlds
that might have been and never will. be If
I’m permitted to be more ambitious it isthe

epitaph of a whole phase of our civilization,
and I Write with reference to myself not only
for egotistic reasons but for lack of any other

(reference i.e.). I'll be satisﬁed if I can pomt
out where my own idealism has failed.

But

to be less apologetic and more to the point, I
state categorically that every youngster with

any sense of pride must at least some time or
the other be an idealist. I mean an idealist
in a hybrid sense which implies non-con-

formism, non-materialism, and a concept that
human dignity however imperfect is more
valuable than the machine perfection to which

modern society would have us reduced.

I

oppose the good advice to study hard at school
so that one may get good marks in the examination so that one may get into a good
college so that one may work harder towards
a degree so that one may get a good job so
that one may work still harder for a promotion
so that one may make enough money to start

Cing act it becomes. Nyquist might call it
an unstable system. It means that a small
disturbance, wilful or otherwise, is sufficient
to upset it. A bird sucked into a jet engine
for instance. (I believe we blame the bird
on such an occasion!) The spanner in the
works is but a pin today and will be a puff of
air tomorrow as we blindly swarm up this
dead-end street called progress. In a former
journalistic attempt I think I Said that the
power of reason alone distinguishes us from
machines. Since some of the latest com~
puters are reputed to think as well, the only

remaining curtain seems to be irrationality;
and it’s a very thin curtain at that. I say it
has come to the last ditch battle for supremacy. The material comforts that science
can provide will only be good enough for a
mindless spiritless being. Of course we can
always convert ourselves into robots and
pretend that science was all we ever wanted.
It’s the easy way out and the way we’re
headed now. But let us hang on to all our
gods and superstitions and art and nature and

philosophy, for the machine-god is both ruthless and efﬁcient and will be unmerciful to
imperfect humans.

than the other guys; and what virtue is that,

since an examination is intrinsically valueless
and merely a yardstick for arbitrary social
judgement? But let me not stray into a dis~
course on that, much asI would like to. In

fact there are ever so many things I'd like to
throw some stones at, some in our Institute,

matters like curricula, staff-student relationship etc., but this isn‘t exactly a complaint
buok, and furthermore the picture would be

sadly distorted if I didn't mention that there
are many matters I appreciate and am grate-

ful for.

It

is common to take pleasant

circumstances for granted.
Indolence and
modesty usually prevent me from setting myself up as a moral judge over everyone else.
A sudden lapse of both those virtues resulted

in this essay. Probably for the last time.
A recent ‘ cup’ lamented that one must
insult one‘s friends to impress others. I'm
not going a step further and trying to disparage myself to the same end. My intention
here is to shock, not to impress. It is not
an excuse for any observed insociability or
for any suggestion that I belong a few

centuries ago. You may hit me over the
head with it and make it my own epitaph, but
I won’t take back a word of it. In all its
hasty conclusiOns and inconsistencies it is
dearer to me than any machine-perfect
treatise.

(Smart justiﬁcation, eh P)

entire science-based education to discovu the

King Arthur’s closing words went something like:

emptiness that science has to offer. More so

‘ Ask every person if he’s heard the story

Maybe it is unfortunate that it took me an

that my sole qualiﬁcation may compel me to

And tell it loud and clear if he has not,

make a living out of accelerating what I
consider my own doom. I suppose that's
where my idealism must stop, if only to

That once there was a ﬂeeting wisp of
glory ...... not let it be forgot that
once there was a spot

really living at sixty-four with rheumatism,

prevent me from harbouring regrets all my

For one brief shining moment that was

false teeth, lung cancer and somebody else’s
heart. This is the least-resistance life offered

life, since I know damn well that I can’t wage
a war on my own. At most I could wreck a

My Camelot seems to be fading away as

to the average human today———a life which
keeps dictating ‘ so that ’ till you’re dead or

computer or two and then meditate harmlessly

many already have.

in a prison cell, with conscience still uneasy.
When I get out of here I guess I’ll just fall

new Camelot which is deceptively similar to
Arthur’s World. Eternal inspidity and physi~

into the time-worn groove and becmne a mere

cal and mental oblivion is promised. Will
we welcome it with open arms P
——-Ta£ Scum

nearly so.

It is the result of much well-

meant parental care and inﬂuence. Why
can’t we live for the moment more often and
leave out some of the so thats ? Living in the

future always is as good as not living at all.
Great men have advised the equivalent of
‘ whatever you do, do it with a purpOSc ’. If
that applies universally we’ll be robots before
It is often the ‘purposeless’ or
long.
spontaneous things that are most meaningful;
things one does without cold calculated
material reason behind it. If you’re human
it’s the poetic moments you will remember
and not your visit to a fertiliser factory.
Psychologists equate emotional maturity to

statistic, a contribution to some Gaussian
distribution curve. What a fall for an in-

dividual with a soul.

known as CAMELOT.’
We are drifting into a

But no laments. It

has always been a disappointment that most

of my Crazy ideas had to be derived from
middle-aged or elderly folk rather than the
likes of me.

It forces me to conform all the

sooner and turn my thoughts to matters like
making money.
Those who are concerned with the modern
world of management consider it unfortunate
that a human being is not quite predictable

Physics Lab Record
14-8-67.
Expt. No. 3.
Mirror Galvanometer

Aim .' (a) To hook from the laboratory

and cannot yet be governed by any mathematical equation. My limited classroom

before 2 p.m.

of emotions, something which any Egyptian
mummy will pass with ﬂying colours. We are
becoming bound by a dehumanized pattern of

contact with the subject has led me to detest

Apparatus .'

it as a highly immoral profession. Of course
it is the ‘ in ’ thing today since that’s where

junk that is on the table.

set behaviour, of not committing ourselves, of

millisecond, there is a kick in the galvano-

saying just those things which ‘ ought ’ to be

all the money is. Get into I.I.M., say, and
life is made, with a thousand for a start. But

said. As a mild example of such dehumaniza-

what does management science expect of

tion, when I say ‘ Good Morning, sir ’ it could
mm anything from ‘ Hullo, nice to see you ’
to ‘ Why did I have to see your rotten mug
today?’ On a more practical level, if I

you—to ferret out all the little inefﬁciencies

opened for ﬁve milliseconds, there is a kick
in your pen and readings from the senior's

the stiﬂing (roughly) or at least the non-display

witnessed a road accident I wonder if I’ll be
the ﬁrst one to help. I may worry about
having to give evidence in court or something
like that. Wouldn’t that be shameful ? or is

shame already a nineteenth century word?
It’s so remarkably easy and safe to feign
blindness and ignorance.
If there's any hope of saving our future it
lies with us who will be in it. Paradoxically,
it is based on a purpose, that of ﬁghting the
future with the present. I could almost
proclaim, ‘ Repent, for the end of the world

is at hand and it is of our own choice.’
While I’m still sane (?) I’d choose rather to
die in a nuclear blast than become a zombie.
It is mainly in our school and college days
that we have the best opportunities to build
our Utopias. No matter that it is only a few
who have the guts and grit to live out any of
their noble ideals; it is quite unpardonablc

and inhuman for a young chap not to indulge
in any dreams at all.

It’s like not playing a

game because the other side is stronger. What
the hell, we play anyway for it is better to

have played and lost than neverto have played
at all. How much milder is the statement
that it is better to have dreamed and failed
your dream than etc.
, Our present existence

is pervaded

by

machines to an extent which makesus un-

of man and machine and by remedying them
increase productivity and proﬁts so that
you may make still more so that so that so
that. . . . The machine, if it could, will surely

(b) To rush to Eros cinema.
Theory :
meter.

ment. Dmn't anyone feel the outright
indignity of the phrase ‘ man-machine
system ’ ?

0n equal terms, imagine I There

are many advanced books on the subject, all
attempting to formulate the human equation So

that it an be reduced to a simple machine
system once more. The modern work study
expert is nothing but an overseer with a whip,
clad in sheep’s clothing. This eternal craving after maximum proﬁts and productive
efﬁciency which only leads to more of the
same has created a vicious circle forming a
noose around our necks.

Unfortunately it is

the big businessman to whom the world pays
homage today and so he can dictate terms
and issue death warrants at will. The
strength of the hippie philosophies lies in their
rejection of these pointless limo.
There is another topic I touched on in the
beginning to which I would return for another
brief round, namely academic achievement
mania. This can easily become the centre

and sole driving force of I otudcm’o life.
All because we thrust so much importance

aware of our automatic actions representing

upon the topguys in a ‘ morit’ list.

anatomic state of dependence. The lights

to the top they study harder for theirenms

Toget

(a) When the circuit is open for a

Similarly, when the senior’s record is

record surge into your record.
(b) l.a.b.+l.i.f.t=g.a.t.e

g.a.t.e+ roP=E.r.o.s
Where E.r.o.s=Adyar+a small

cry out. The man by suitable bribes, bonuses
and slick doubletalk is kept blind to the fact
that he is nothing but a worker ant, or worse
still, a Roman galley slave. His every microaCtlon is sought to be controlled by manage-

A senior’s record, plus all the

distance As.

All dimensions in Rationalised M. K. S.
(Madras Knavery Society) system.

Procedure .' First, lounge around the lab
for sometime. Then connect all the wires to
make the apparatus look jazzy. Avoid shocks
and explosions. Now look around. After
making sure that all ma

etic materials and

tutors are far removed fgriim the apparatus,
carefully transfer a few lines from one record
to another.

If the lecturer comes too near,

slip into the next room and suck a piece of
ice from a calorimeter. If you feel like it,
get into a small scrap with someone. Meanwhile, pick the friend who is

ing to cough

up for you at the cinema.
ow come back
and resume cogging. Check for the lecturer
after 5, re, 1 5, 20 minutes.

Draw a line between the lecturer on one
axis and yourself on the other. The line will
i:;ersect only at the lab. Now apply formula
( Precautions : (r') The senior's record
should contain only ‘ A ’ or ‘ S ’
(ii) Don't quit the lab too curly. Elle
the-kcmrcrs will make you repeat the experiment six times or more.
Result : Mot the lecturer at the cinemﬂ)
—Vimtv.
Kan.

