‘ Please see that you
althchair 7’

CARICATURE

do.

And

Us

CAMPASTIMES
this

‘ From the Common Room, Sir, 1.. .er.. .I

. ..l was just going to return it Sir when
you came in, you can ask ...... ’
With a little more pleasant chit-chat in the
same vein about the rest ofthe things in his
room, including his new collection of
records, the Warden left, promising to call

Thoroughly Modern
Mandeep

Mandeep Singh is undoubtedly on par with
the Mechanical Age. He is the only surd on
the Campus with a mechanical hair drier.
And although he hasn’t yet had occasion to
use it, he takes great pains to leave it in painfully obvious places to let all and sundry know
he uses nothing so old fashioned as a towel.

Surds have come and surds have left the
lnstitute in hordes. It has been noticed
with some considerable interest and a lot of
chop-licking relish that, by virtue of certain
inherent qualities which are difﬁcult to duplicate, analyse or predict, this particular species
of homo sapiens lends itself amiably to any

He even took it to class one day and pretended

it was all a big mistake. Instead of picking up
his ﬁle he happened to grab the hair drier. .. .

concoction designed to depict the funny and
humorous side of life.

The advent of Mandeep Singh into IITM
was no ordinary event. It sparked off a
controversy which, to the best of our know-

\Vhen Hamilton went to hell
The devils began to yell
And banished him quick
Before they got sick
Of his incessant lectures on :7.

Laplace in a similar plight
Got out of that joint quite light
For his inverse transform
Made Hades so warm
That the demons were all in a fright.
But Newton had no such luck 2
His equations of motion got stuck
When an apple fell down
And fractured his crown
And made the poor chap run amuck.

ledge, is still raging in Parliament. It has
something to do with the validity of the
entrance examinations.
The Mandeep Singh of today is a distinctly
revised and re-edited version of the Mandeep
Singh that we ﬁrst met in the ﬁrst year. Nobody knows when exactly the metamorphosis
took place. It is difﬁcult to pinpoint the
exact day and date, but all are agreed that it
was somewhere in the third year that he
became a gunman of knowledge, a sort of
intellectual bonfire, surprising people who had
long ago listed him as a modest agreeable dolt.
It wasn’t until quite some time later that
we found out Mandeep Singh had started
reading Time Magazine, a habit he still
assiduously pursues so much so that one may
rightly say he is a man made by Time.
One bright, sunny day he decided to up his
standards and get himself a pillow. It’s not
very comfortable sleeping on a pile of textbooks—borrowed text-books—day in and day
out.

MATHEMATICIANS

on him at least once every week.

—TEE SQUARE.

MORE
MATHEMATICIANS

So at the stroke of midnight, on a dark

and moonless night he slipped into his faithful
sneakers, picked up his thermos ﬂask and

went downstairs. He read the notice board
nonchalantly as people are wont to when they
have nothing in particular to do, and stood

looking aimlessly here and

there.

We begin with Euclid (a Greek)
In theorems he was wont to speak.
What he could not shew
He discreetly drew,

The

thermos was to be his alibi, a silent witness

to his desires for watch, Turningaround to
face the mess, he put into action part two of
his diabolical plot. For every two steps forward he took three backwards. The overall
impression meant to be conveyed to prying eyes
was that of one Mandeep Singh walking
towards the mess, ﬂask in hand in quest of

water when in fact he progressed in a direction
opposite to the mess. The phenomenon of
retention of image was to play an important
part in the plot. As luck would have it
there was one stupid gardener, not so Well

up on his Physics, who could only discern
Mandeep Singh reach the Medical room stern

ﬁrst and walk out with the hostel pillow.
The next morning. the hon’ble Warden
paid Mandeep Singh a visit presumably for

a ﬁrst hand account of ‘ How to steal a pillow
and get away with it—almost.’ When asked
why he did it, Mandeep Sing turned crimson
to the tips of his beard and said something
about his spine not being what it used to be

and the explicit orders his doctor had given
him to use a pillow. He ﬁnished lamely
with ‘ I just borrowed it Sir. I was going
to return it, honest I was. You can ask

GirL. .

. .’

‘ All right, all right; said the Warden trying

to be nice about the whole thing, “but the
next time you want something ...... ’
‘ Yes Sir, I’ll. ask for it Sir.’
‘ Good.

Now then, how, do you spend

your leipure hours, Mr. Mandeep Singh? I.

can sce'yuu do a lot of reading. Is that the
latest Tina Magazine ?' He reaches out
for it, casually ﬂips a few pages then
suddenly stiﬁ'ens in surprise, ‘Mr. Mandeep

Singh. .1 i I’
‘ Er. . it's from the Common Room, Sir.

I

was going to return it this evening Sir, really
I was, you can ask Giri, Sir. . . .’

4

Adding ‘ Q.E.D.’ — Latin, not Greek.

The year he got his Scooter his conversation followed a very predictable trend. His
opening pieces invariably ran something like,
‘ Last time I was going on my scooter. . . . or,

Pythagoras knew all about squares,
And for this reason gave himself airs.

If only he knew
Of sin P and cos Q
And complex roots occurring in pairs !

‘ Have you ever tried taking four guys on a
scooter?. . . .’

His fav0urite story until a few

days ago was how he cleaned the carburettor of his scooter single~handed. He was the
only one who failed to see what was so funny
about the whole thing until someone in-

formed him, tactfully one hopes, that what
he had cleaned was the spark plug, not the
.
carburettor.
Whereas the whole of IITM is US College

bent, Mandeep Singh is a man With a
difference. None of the rat race for Fellowships, Scholarships, or admissions for him.

Archimedes did some work on 17
But ‘Eureka’ is his famous cry.
He was wet and distraught
When he had this thought,

But the rest of his work was quite dry.
Euler was too clever by half ;
His notions made nobody laugh.
His lofty discourse
Has made him, of course,
The despair of the Science-teaching staff.

He has directly applied to a number of ﬁrms

Einstein drove everyone crazy,

in the US and the continent for a job. Not
just any old ﬁrm, but only those select few ‘
which he has come to know through his
own special and intricate web of intelligence
that have a desperate need for an imported

Though his theories were not all that hazy.
His idea that time

Maintenence Engineer, also called a janitor.
And how does he ever hope to 'get. this
challenging post P

Well in his own inimitable

words ‘ Pop’s inﬂuence, Yaarl ’ g

.

In spite of all the disadvantages and handrcaps (none of them of his own making)
Mandeep Singh has made it to the ﬁnal
year, and when he passes out he is bound}

to leave behind a vacuum which Will not
be ﬁlled. up in a hurry. However some
optimists seem to think he will leave no such
vacuum. He’ll take it with him—1n that
space between his turban and nose.
—Aavmn Jamar.

Can move back, is sublime——
Especially if you are born lazy.
Russell needs no introduction ;

He has kindly given us instruction
On numbers, and life,
And Ending of Strife,
But practice has proved his destruction.

The Bernoullis were' quite a gang —They were twelve. I admit, with a pang,
That nine came to a stop

With no more than a ‘pop ’—
Only three made a triumphant ‘ Bang l ‘
—S. Pamrsnwmn.

