(AMPASTIMES

14

THE TALKING
MACHINE

PERSONALITIES

The Scene: Reopening day [967. A scene
which has been repeated every year without fail

for the past four years.

The time—8.32 am.

The lecturer strides Conﬁdently into the classroom (IV/5 Chemical). With one sweeping

Prof S. Sampath

glance at the new faces in the classroom he
draws out the attendance list and belts out
the ﬁrst four names. However, his eyes are
trying to make something out of the queer
jumble of letters that constitute the ﬁfth
person’s name. He hesitantly decides to give
it a try—‘D.., Der.., mgrmph!

What is

this? No. 5. ‘vhat is your name?’ One
would expect a persan with so formidable a
name to be no less formidable in appearance,

and endowed with a booming, resonant voice.
But he turns out to be a bespactacled, balding.
101 lb. brat who meekly replies ‘Darryl
Cordeiro ’.

Darryl F. Joseph Cordeiro (Lactus
Domesticus Sphericus) does not ofﬁcially exist.
The Academic section gives him a new name
each year (Dcryll Cordeire, D. Cordeim) and

the N.C.C. and the Gymkhana, not willing to
be outdone, chip in with some of their
‘ originals’ such as Del Kodal Yourself,
D. Condering, C. Kotexno ?
His class-

mates and the staff members call him anything
they please, for conceited as he is, he will
answer to anything you call him. However,
he is popularly known as C.B. the expansion

of which would probably make an uninitiated
fresher blush !

To those of us who knew him way back
in July r964. he is a far cry from the Cordeiro
of old, who modestly proclaimed that his life’s

ambition was to become a ‘ playboy '. When
asked to be more explicit he shyly said

‘ I can play T.T.’ If the reader should wonder
how people have co-existed with him, I would
like to mention that Nature seldom endows
long-tongued fellows with bulgin biceps i.e.,
C.B.lacks the muscle pOWer to be his blatant
assertions. Therein, dear Reader, lies the
key to serenity, should you be approached
by a certain bald, bespectacled brat who says

‘ Hi ! Heard the latest P...’
The ﬁrst thing that could possibly strike

Prof Sampath has had what is blithely

anybody on entering Prof Sampath’s room is

termed a glorious academic record, spotted

the Steel Cupboard. Asuccessful negotiation

here and there with ﬁrsts and gold medals of

of this leads you to a large desk presided over
by an equally large ﬁgure. It is one of the
Prof’s maxims never to keep anybody waiting, and more often than not, his staccato
ﬂow of words can be stopped only by the
advent of a caller. But in all fairness it must
be mentioned that he rarely fails to hold his
audience and senses interruptions very easily.

a large variety. His record of medals won for
essay writing at Loyola College, Stanford
University and elsewhere qualiﬁes him to

It is a peculiarity of the Prof’s that he
rarely accepts a lift when proceeding on foot
towards the Electrical Sciences Block. But on

reaching it, he invariably uses the lift installed
recently, (he protests that he is not taking the

lift, but the elevator l) thereby vindicating the
policy of the elevator company of always em-

P.S. The author solicits contributions to ﬁght
charges of slander, libel, character assassination
etc., etc.

write for Campastimes. He joined the Ins—
titute in ’61 and is at present the only Prof
on the right side of forty.
Someone once remarked that a barrel chest
of the sort Prof. Sampath sports should be
very conducive to long distance swimming.
He however denies emphatically any such proﬁciency and adds that the only time he ever
tried swimming, he nearly didn’t come up for
the third time ; which considerably dampened
his enthusiasm for the sport. He has, on his

own admission, never really taken to games of

ploying a large safety factor in the design.

any sort.

(Prof. Sampath claims that in his younger
days, he competed with a scarecrow in
ﬁgure.)

The Prof walks erect as a guardsman,
swinging his arms in the best traditions of the

Perhaps the most well-known fact about

a phenomenon which should prove of inestimable value to his learned neighbour Prof
Ramaseshan, in explaining slip caused by

Prof Sampath is his association with the acquisition of our new Analogue Computer.

—C.M.

NCC, yet hardly seems to move his legs at all;

dislocations.

He went over to the U.S.A. in Dec. ’63, personally dismantled it, and shipped it over here.

The following story bears repetition. I be~
lieve the computer was sulking and refusing
to work. Finally a slip road ‘ Call in an ex-

pert! '. When one arrived, the curt rejoinder
was ‘ Man not expert! ’. On Prof Sampath’s
arrival, however, it said resignedly, ‘ Hell,

back to work l ' (American computers are
notoriously colloquial.)

The Prof. is of the opinion that we, the
students, have too little leisure time to do
much extra reading and feels that 39 hours is
too taxing. We whole-heartedly endorse this
view, and are shocked to hear a rumourto the

5;} “VHCQ V00 .1 CUT'uT

effect that Delhi HT is contemplating inereasing their working hours to 39.
pathies are with the students.

Our Sam-

—MVR.

.evn ZPEL 'INj'woﬁR-.-

M wow 3M3 0N6!

