CAMPASTJMES

15

[Goofy was an exraordinary character: screwy, talented, brilliant at

times, and incorrigibly sensation-hungry. His spectacular, often unprinta—
ble exploits were the talk of the Campus, and he was a legend in his own
time. He tried just about everything, and writing for Campastimes
scIEN‘E

wasn't for down the list. (Well, he wasn’t born Goofy
Ramachandran. The error was corrected very soon, though.)]

AStanford University scientist has made a laser eraser. Truly
God's gift to stenos, this laser beam vaporises ink so fast it does not
sings the paper. By scanning a page, you would make sentences
vanish like magic.

Think of using it for tattoos, stains, moles, etc.

G 0 0 F Y

but Gopal

R
1

I

men and the image is shot out through another thin bundle. One of
the top experts in this burgeoning ﬁeld of applied optics is an Indian
Scientist, Dr N. S. Kapany.
Aerospace industries got another boost this month when a new

Who knows, they might even invent a laser tooth-brush precise enough
to burn up the dirt without melting the ﬁllings.
'
We can’t leave the subject of laser beam applications without
mentioning a new method of numerical control of a machine. This is

of three million psi compared to a few tens of thousands for ordinary
materials. You might not exactly be able to gift wrap an automo-

an interferometric method using an electro-optically modulated laser

bile in this ‘paper’ with ribbons and all, but it’s expected to ﬁnd

beam and a reﬂector mounted on the workpiece. A forward backward
digital counter counts the interference standing waves and this data is
fed to a computer. The computer also receives data from a unit

many uses in rocket nose Cones, fuel tanks etc.

continuously monitoring atmospheric pressure and refractive index and

the result is displayed on a screen, the result being the distance to the
object with an accuracy of ten millionths of an mch for a length of
100 inches.
The whole unit is extremely compact and is being used in high

precision aerospace machine shops.

‘ paper’ was ‘ synthesizcd’. It’s made of ‘ whiskers ’ of an aluminium ,
compound. A whisker is a single crystal and has a tensile strength

The latest development in radar technology is a method of looking over the horizon. Everyone knows that radar frequencies permit
only line of sight detection, but a novel technique of tropospheric
forward scatter, which has already successfully been used in long distance

communication links, is being developed. The System will require exotic techniques such as high gain, liquid helium cooled maser or
parametric ampliﬁers, micro-miniaturization etc.
Speaking of miniaturization, have you ever seen the Bible look like
a bus ticket P

Glass ﬁbre is pretty versatile.

They‘ve used it in everything from

boats, shotgun barrels, rocket nose cones to lingeries. Now they’re
developing a system to televise the inside of the stomach, in colour,
yes I Bundles of ﬁbreglass conduct light down the throat to the abdo-

A newly developed process of successive microﬁlming

is capable of reducing the entire contents of The Encyclopazdz'a
Britannica to a sheet of ﬁlm as big as four or ﬁve post-cards. The
process is expected to save millions of dollars every year in U.S.
Industry by reducing costs in handling and storage.

THEIWVE STOOGES

(Gus 8: Co., created history when they pooled their rescurces
in an automotive venture. What follows is an account of how this
brainwave struck the ﬁve.)
‘ She goes 30 miles a gallon—r6 on gas and 14. on push.’ —-Ravi.
Actually it’s my uncle’s fault, We had been to visit him after
a long time and explained that it was difﬁcult to come so far, so

often, and—you know, the usual jazz. He said, ‘ Why don’t you buy
a car?’
1 know of one, a ’37 Austin, going for Rs. 900’. We
looked at each other and the glimmerings of an idea was born. C.K.’s
brow corrugated with thought as he tried to divide 900 by four.
He
gave up and suggested that ﬁve of us pool in.

Calculations were feverishly made, and checked by the accountant, Cammy. Little piggy banks were emptied and elder sisters
were requested for loans and outright legacies. I’arents' were not
included as potential money sources until it became Imperative. This
was a pocket-money project.
Batty and I ware commissioned to ﬁnd out about the car.
Unfortunately, the Austin had already been sold. Were we interested in a Skoda ? The agent listed all the merits of the car. We were lost
from them.
When Gus heard our report, his eyes grew as
large as saucers while he gloated over such obscure data as 0.H.V.,
hydraulic brakes and transmission, and the fuel consumption. Next

morning, we inspected the car—Gus and I. We drove her up
and down a bit.

Thrilled we went back to the agent’s office and

bickered about the money—we were Rs. 1000 above our budget!
However, with my eloquent pleadings (ahem!) and Gus’s sad
cocker spaniel expression the agent came to accept our terms.
We reported back to the Group.
A motley gang crowded about our black beauty and skeptics forecast
the future of the Skoda.
Locking the car posed a problem due to the
complete absence of door handles and locks. That night We slept
uneasily.
The next day, in swirl of dust and with enough rattling to provide
the musical score, we drove to class amid cheers and jeers. Then—

catastrophel

Our Universal joint bearing snapped. The Institute

workshop offered absolutely no help.

In fact, borrowinga screwdriver

from them might be the ﬁnal exam in 3 Dale Carnegie course.
(A tip to future adventurers.)
But soon, everything was okay. The tuning was done, the brakes
adjusted, and we hit the road. (Spare parts, anyone P) Psst ! Don’t
tell the cops that we did 5 5mph (according to Kimbo’s speedometer)
On the beach road.
But now, as I am out of the contract, I can tell you more. The
claim that the Skoda overtook a Standard Herald is true. Only, the
latter was not moving. One last bit of advice: avoid the car like the
plague. The gang are just learning to drive.
RAM SITARAM,

Ex-stooge.

