(AMPASTIMES

l(\

Caricature

DANDONA
At present the subject is in residence in

Narmada Hostel. To be speciﬁc, he lives
next to the bathroom.

However it has not

made any appreciable dent in the cloud of
fragrance enveloping him. One recalls the
well-documented incident in his 2nd ytar

when he was pursued through the corridors
by a Flit-Gun wielding Ashok Khanna. lndeed it is claimed he slays goats by exhaling
at them. His marked resemblance to a
character called Fagin has been a subject of
much discussion behind closed doors. I must
hasten to add that he's very popular with his

mother and father. A proliﬁc short-story
writer, Femina has published a story of his.
Blessed with b.o. and a good taste in records,

he is also an ardent collector of books and
magazines, ranging from Iliad and Playboy,
to Practical Wireless and Femina (one issue
so far). His lumbering, swaying gait brings
to mind the southern end of a north-bound
bull.

He can do anything that Eddie Calvert can
do, except play the trumpet. Drumming on
a polythene bucket and playing on a harmonica wholly concealed in his big mouth are

among the activities of his formative years.
His dramatic career began on a bright note

Focus on Pattabhi

0F P.J’s. and J.P.

in 2nd year on Narmada’s hostel day, when

At the very outset let us say a few words about this illustrious

he performed the part of a sweeper with
incredible accuracy and his characteristic

gentleman who with blood, sweat, toil and tears has dedicated his life

charm. The crowning achievement of his

to the formulation and propagation of P.J‘s. His esoteric knowledge
in this ﬁeld of human endeavour has turned him from a mere mortal to

career came when he formed 50% of Narmada’s entertainment contingent. Regretfully,

his querulous and plaintive rendering of
‘ Eeeennnhhh? Whhhaaat did you sayynn P ’,
did not ﬁnd favour with the audience. He‘s
the friend, philosopher and guide of many
budding radio constructors, but his endearing

habit of absent-mindedly exchanging radio
parts has been found obnoxious in certain
quarters. Among his other charming man-

a demi-god WhOsC fame will go down in the annals of history.

In our

relentless pursuit of truth and knowledge, we hate decided to pay

homage to this veritable genius, (dire consequences indeed for both
this paper and the gentleman in question). Friends, read, and read
well, this epistle which might well beecme his epitaph.
Pattabhi and a friend of his once went to the 200. They asked the
man at the gate where the bear’s cage was located. The man pointed
to the zoo wall and said, ‘ Consider this wall as a reference line and

the point where we now stand as the origin.

Turn through an angle

class and never failing to visit the toilet during
terminal and ﬁnal examinations. ‘ Whaddaya~

of forty-three and a half degrees and walk straight onwards for a hundred
yards.’ Greatly impressed by these mathematical instructions, they set
out to see the bear. On the way, Pattabhi asked his friend, ‘What will

call’ has already been exploited, so I shall

the colour of the bear be?’

say no more about it.
Our hirsute hero’s playing career on the

football ﬁeld came to an abrupt end when his
groin came into violent collision with a fast-

will be white,’ said Pattabhi. ‘From the way in which its position
was speciﬁed in polar co-ordinates, it is obviously a polar bear.’
Once a transformer factory caught ﬁre. The chief engineer, noted
for his brillianCe in the ﬁeld of electricity, was seen running round

moving boot.

shouting, ‘ FEE ! FEE ! ’ The onlookers were totally mystiﬁed. After

nerisms are his habits of sitting sideways in

Since then, he has restricted

His friend was naturally puzzled.

‘It

Sirpal lustily clobbered him with the business

the ﬁre had. been brought under control, someone asked him why he
had behaved so strangely. He replied, ‘ I wanted to yell FIRE l FIRE l
but a sense of urgency compelled me to be brief, and I made use of
the relation E = IR.’
Have you heard of Pattabhi’s friends x, y, z and t who ﬁgure in the

end of an oar, thereby altering the geometry

relation 2 = f(x, y, t)?

of his face and terminating a promising
career.

Bombay for Larsen and Toubro. It is alleged
that, to alleviate the Shortage, he gallantly
sold his entire water rations on the black
market.
At present, he is rehearsing his autobio-

been watching these guys asked Pattabhi why Sri z looked so downcast
while Sri 3:, Sri y and Srimathi t were whooping it up and enjoying
themselves. ‘ Isn't it obvious P ’ asked Pattabhi, ‘ x, y, and t are
independent variables, while 2 is only a dependent variable, and today
is Independence Day.’
‘ An elephant has only two teeth, a man has thirty-two teeth. Can
you think of anything that has seventy-nine teeth P ’ asks Pattabhi. J.P.
gives the answer, ‘ A gear.’
Once in a station, a man asked our Professor why a particular engine
was taken and shoved at the back of the train. Prof. explained the
phenomenon scientiﬁcally at great length. ‘ I hope you have understood
everything. Reversible engines have the greatest efﬁciency. For the
best utilisation of steam engines, they always follow this method.’
It has always been very elementary for Prof. to ﬁx up several
locations knowing only a few. ‘Mathematics helps me to a great
extent,’ he says. Once when he went to Cotpadi (also known as

graphy by relating it to everyone he meets.
Well might one attribute to him the follow-

Katpadi), he sincerely believed that there was a place called Tanpadi
in a perpendicular direction because

himself tobeing an enthusiastic cheer leader.
The winner of many regattas at home, he
has been an active participant in the Adyar
Boat Club’s events. However, Rajendra

Anil Thadani, Esq., and our friend may

often be seen playing a charming little game of
their own. The rules of this game may
brieﬂy be stated thus: The ﬁrst contestant,
upon spying the other, bellows, ‘ Statue ! !

you ..... . (words of cndcarment).’ Whereupon the latter immobilises ‘ himself for a
stipulated period of time.
Recently, our bearded bean worked in

ing words from Wordsworth:

cot (padi + 90) = tan (padi).

‘ Yet shalt thy name,
Conspicuous and sublime,

Gears, chains, belts — all come under the same category as drives.

Stand in the spacious ﬁrmaments of
ﬁmc,

...

On the r5th of August, someone who had

:

Now Prof. asks a very logical question. ‘ Why do people always give
gears a very stepmotherly treatment P If chains and belts can be used

on dogs, then why not gears too P ’

Fixed as a star :

The place—Krishna Hostel.

Such glory is thy right.
OI Charanjit, woulds’t that thy name
live on forever I '
—Goorr.

The time—During the Gymkhana Elections.
Goswami, in the course of his vigorous campaign, entered Prof.
J.P's. room. After the usual campaign talk, as he was stepping out,
the Prof. remarked, ‘Ah, you are now Goswami.

in you were Comeswami.’

When you came

