CAMPASTIMES
R B. Madhusudan Menon, B.Sc.; 0.82 B. Tech. (alias Madhu)

17

It was a funnel that gave us the idea.

nearby jeweller’s shop.

cleared his throat importantly.
Not unusually, nobody paid any attention. After a ﬁt of vehement
coughing, which produced no results either, he essayed speech.

The next day we went to a

‘Look,’ I told the man at the counter ‘we

’

want to hire three paste diamonds for a couple of days.’
It was rather an unusual request.

The man agreed, however and

then came the tricky part. We left it to Lionel. He has the advanta e
of a cherubic visage that looks incredibly innocent even when the Oaner

‘Say, yar, I got an idea yar.’
‘ Aw, shaddup.’

is upto the worst devilry.

‘ Dammit yar, I’m gonna make a fortune yar, and if you guys ask for

lifts in my Cadillac, you won’t get ’em.’

Lionel put on his best smile (it is rumoured

that he practises regularly in front of a mirror) and went ahead.
. ‘ Ahem, you see we

are

joke on a friend of ours.

The point is we will bring him with us and

uh———playing a——uh—-——

you’ll have to examine these imitation diamonds and tell him that
they’re genuine. You see what I mean? ’
He Started hesitantly, but ﬁnished with a rush. We all looked at the

man eagerly. The funny thing was that he acted as if it was all in the
day’s work. He agreed without a murmur and only commented ‘ Everybody IS playing practical jokes nowadays, Sir.’ IfI had been in his

When Madhu starts refusing us lifts in his future Cadillacs and Rolls
Royces, it means he is hurt.
So Shenoy, Lionel, Varadarajan and I
lent him our ears.

place andI four skiicl;1 disreputablehcharacters had come up with a similar
'
ave had no esitatio i
wou
request
n n handing them over to the
polvi‘pe as conﬁdence swindlers.
ﬂowing
with compdence.
.
u at the shed on Friday . Madhu
e turned
seemed to be over-

Madhu now proceeded further. Before allowing him to proceed, this
chronicler feels it is his duty to introduce Madhu to those fortunate
few who have not yet come into contact (usually physical) with him.
Well, Madhu in motion is a living testimony to the veracity of the

‘ There. should be absolutely no difﬁculty, yar,’ he crowed and then
went on into a long exposition about compression ratios ﬂame tern e-

claim that ‘ Faith can move mountains ’. Also, in addition to having an
interesting complex about Texas he is the possessor of an exquisitely
twisted brain. To cite but one example, when asked in a mechanics

ratures, carbon deposits and so on and so forth.

He was so engrosged

in his lecture that Shenoy had no diﬂiculty in slipping the three paste

class to design a device for a particular function, Madhu usually comes
up with a design that incorporates seventeen more gears and a couple

diamonds mto the funnel. Being an electronics man, he is particularl
light~ﬁngered and in the event of the collapse of the electronics industry

more tons of platinum alloy than are really necessary.

in India—which catastrophe is generally felt to be inevitable if h:
enters the. industry—he can always make a living as a pick-pocket
To cut it short, the engine was started with the aid of a couple of
strategic kicks and ﬂowery curses, carbon injected, and we sat down to
wait for the results. When Madhu felt that enough time had elapsed
and we felt that the engine was about to give up its ghost, he switched

Of course, the

functioning will be perfect, but the estimated cost of the device is usually
larger than the Indian Defence Budget.
To come back to the point, Madhu proceeded further :

‘ I say yar,

you guys know that diamonds are formed by applying extremely high
pressures and temperatures to Carbon. You want three things, Carbon,
pressure and temperature and you know what has all these three i
Guess yar.’

it off. .When the tin can had cooled sufﬁciently, he unscrewed it
placed it reverently on a table and solemnly removed the lid and his

jaw dropped.
‘v‘Criurk,’ he saiél,1;Gah gab geek goo l ’
e inte

DIAMONll

‘ Gurk,’ said Lionel.
‘ Geek,’ said Shenoy.
‘ Goo,’ said I.
For there at the bottom of the can lay not three but SIX diamonds
When we had recovered to a certain extent four of us sprang on oui

. bikes, leaving Madhu holding the tin can and Lionel frantically endea-

take an I. C. engine yar, increase the compression ratio and apply a
blow torch and you get diamonds in the exhaust.’
When we had ﬁnishedlaughing, Madhu had just begun to lose his shirt.
.,‘,,.What’s the bet, yar? You get me an I. C. engine'and I guarantee I
will produce diamonds.’
‘ Har de harr hat 1 ’
‘Dammit, you guys are the type to impede original research and
frustrate inventors. If Newton and Einstein had had friends like you
guys, they would be discussed in medical textbooks as nuts and not in
our text books
’
He continued in this way of righteous indignation for a couple of
by Varadarajan. ‘ Listen, Madhu, I’ll get
stopped
minutes until he was

I think it can be made to work.

vouring to kick his recalcitrant apology for a motorbike into life. Lionel

and 'Madhu caught us up at the entrance of the jeweller’s, however
and in we charged, Madhu grasping the tin-can to his ample bosom. ’
The man was at the counter and in response to our breathless re-

quests checked the ‘diamonds’. He seemed unneCessarily amused
however. All six were pronounced genuine. We left thoughtfully
Madhu triumphantly.

{ease-ewe.

’

By CAIUS CAMILLUS

ere/erer—a/are/

If you get

diamonds out of it I’ll dash, I’ll dash.’
‘ You needn’t do anything,’ quoth Madhu, ‘just recognise my genius.’

‘ What did I say, yar ! ’ he loated, rancin about like a
affected by St. Vitus‘s Dance, ‘gAin’t I a? geniusg? ’
mastodon
‘ Man, oh Man! Watch me beat it up ! Two Cadillacs, a Rolls
Royce and a visit to Texas !

You miserable mutts, wanna lift, just say

the word.’
We watched him morosely, wondering . . . . when we ﬁnally managed

MACHINE

to ditch the slightly delirious Madhu, I held a hasty confabulation.

This is how it all started. Madhu managed to get the old truck
engine running and had scheduled a diamond producing run for Friday.

The day he had announced it was Wednesday. We were all there at
the shed where the massive, but ancient engine was bolted to an even
more massive, but inexplicably.rickety bench. The self—styled genius
was giving us a lecture on the improvisation and improvements he had
made. The engine looked quite ordinary except that in the place of
an exhaust tube it had a tin can with a vertical funnel to serve as an

exhaust. This contraption Madhu informed us, would catch the emerging diamonds.

'

tron to inspect the con-

‘ Gah gah,’ said Varadarajan.

Our reactions were identical. ‘ Go jump in the lake.’ ‘ O.K., yar,
don’t exhibit your ignorance, yar l ’ This comment we felt, called
for a stringent disciplinary action and it was a slightly shabby and
dishevelled Madhu to continue to enlighten us ‘ ignoramuses ’. ‘Just

you an old engine.

rete t e noises to indicate an invita '

tents of th?tin can and so we did and—

It seemed that he expected at least three diamonds on

‘ Look,’ I said, ‘that guy must have exceeded his instructions. He
most probably thought we want him to say all six were genuine.’ Varadarajan is the unfortunate possessor of a trusting nature. ‘ No ’ he
said, ‘ Those other three must be genuine.’
,
‘ Why don’t we go and ask the guy again,’ said Shenoy.
‘ What are we waiting for i’ ’ said Lionel.
And so back we went to jeweller’s shop. And this time we entered
more sedately and ..... saw a massive back and heard a familiar voice.
‘ Say yar,’ said the voice. ‘ Forget those three imitations I had. The
others, were they genuine i ’
Nowadays Madhu doesn’t refer so often to Cadillacs, Rolls Royces
and Texas.‘

Not so surprising, or is it P

his ﬁrst run.
PERIODIC‘ALS‘

Pawn/tats

THEY ll/NDER

.

YOU

.HEY! 7"" GOT
' ‘ IN 575"”
A D

ARE
a”
/

""5
WE"
xrucwnxmr you
Neevous
mick;
Ania/55

E

.0 /

W

you 607'
[45)”
.
s’m MA ms

”RE
49000
/

m/

-

' EL

