(‘AMPASTIMES

"0

follow the sign escape with minor injuries like a cerebral haemorrhage

while thosc who rush towards the junction without preparation, ﬁnd
the sight too much. I have seen friends pinch themselves with the
hope that it is all a nightmare.
Ihavc Seen boys come out with
‘Whatwhatwhatwah' or ‘Nonononono' or something along those
lines. I have seen stoics reduced to ,nervous wrecks. Pedestrians,
have, before my own eyes, dug trenches, rung up the police, or taken
cover behind the bushes.
I must, if I am to be true to my readers, admit that there was one
exception, Mandip Singh, who upon seeing the work, said, ‘ I say, this

THE
THING

is fab yar.

I mean, dashed good taste what? My only complaint is

that they have not painted the elephants pink.‘
us, for we know Mandip, don’t we?

But this needn‘t worry

If you think our boys are getting knocked out left and right, without
doing a thing about it, you are mistaken. We at the IIT are built more
for endurance than for speed.

soon retaliate,

By R. SHANKAR

We act.

We get swept off our feet initially, but

I shall illustrate my point.

It happened the other day, when I was showing a friend of mine,
who studies in a city college, our Institute. It was dark and the lights
had not come on. I was very grateful for this darkness, for we were
just crossing the Gajendra circle, and the statues could not be seen in
the dark. And then it happened. The street-lights came on. In a
Jiﬁy, as our eyes were trying to get used to the bright light, unfolded

WHAT IS IT ?
Rocket launching pad ?
Time machine?

before us this masterpiece of art.

As for myself, I must say I took it

well, This was probably because I had grown immune to it. You
may ﬁnd it hard to believe that I could have got immune to a thing like
this. But practice can do wonders. I have heard of men in the Congo

Cover for some underground operation ?

who are immune to cobra bites.

Or is it a new party symbol?

who can stick me. It all comes with practice. It was practice that was
responsible for my cool response to the sight of the two elephants and
the boys leaning on them.
But not so with my friend. He Went through the usual formality
of gasping for breath, getting hysterical, and in short, imitating Macbeth
on seeing his ghost friend gate-crashing for dinner.
But Such attacks do not leave any lasting marks. My friend soon
recovered. He tried to be diplomatic and started praising the works.

God knows.

And, in addition to Him, maybe the men who were

responsible for its erection know. Maybe they do, and maybe they
don’t. I am not betting, when it comes to that Thing at the Gajendra
Circle.

If you’re not the clod that your friend told me you were, you must
have guessed by now that I am alluding to those two elephants and
the two men posing at the Gajendra Circle.
Being a student of life, I have been studying, with growing concern,
the reaction of my comrades to this macabre work of art. Before going
into describing this masterpiece’s inﬂuence on the sanity of the residents,

‘ Nice work, nice work,’ he said, ‘,I must say that you fellows have damn

good taste. Just see how realistic these statues are l Especially that
boy with the sticks of dynamite l ’
morons one holding the hammer and the other the scroll.

The fact is that it does not look like Anything.
It consists of two elephants, which on ﬁnding each other to be un-

bearably nauseating, have decided never to see each other again, and
have, by mutual agreement decided to face opposite directions. The
elephants are fortunately painted black, as against the pink that was ex-

pected of the men behind its Construction. Leaning On these two elephants are two men, who, like the elephants, have taken a natural and

inevitable dislike to each other, and are using an elephant’s head, to
The men are short, undersized and wear badly

tailored pants. One of them carries a hammer, presumably with the
aim of self-destruction.

I know people

‘ Which boy ? ’ I ejaculated, for the set-up consisted of only two

I must tell you how it looks.

hide from each other.

Why go that far?

The other carries a scroll.

Some say they are

‘ That boy there with the sticks of dynamite, kneeling under the
elephants. I must say that he is realistic l '
One good look revealed that the reason for the boy looking real
was that he was real.

I ran towards him, and even before I could ask

him what in the name of blazes he was doing with the dynamite, he
broke dowu and started sobbing over my shoulder.
‘ I just have to do it,’ he said pleadingly, ‘ can't you understand ? I
just have to blow it up. Imagine showing your parents and friends

and relatives this eyesore! What will they think of you after this ?
Wouldn’t they, in future, exchange pregnant glances whenever you talk

cog sheets, while others maintain that the scroll is his degree, in which

of your Alma Mater ? Wouldn’t they give you knowing glances when you

he has agreed not to use his ignorance to subservient ends.

tell them that your Institute is the symbol of modern thought? While
you brag about the Humanities block and the Open Air Theatre wouldn’t they crush you with a nasty remark on these elephants? I just
have to blow up the darn thing.’ He added, like all culprits do in
Highwck's movies, that he had just developed an irresistible impulse

1 remain

neutral. Moreover, I dislike the idea of presuming that these two men
represent the students.
Coming to think of it, what do these statues actually represent?
Opinions diﬁ'er. Some say that the men represent the student body as
seen by the staff, while the elephants represent the staff as conceived by

the students. Some Connoisseurs say that it is the merger of the Zulu
war symbol and the Neanderthal rain dance. Some neurotics maintain
that it is all a vision, and that it will soon pass.
Whatever the Thing represents, it sure has caused a lot of havoc.

I

shall now outline the reaction of men as they come fact-to-face with
statues. You can come to Gajendra Circle from four directions, not

that it makes any difference, of course. The spectacle you behold will
have the same disastrous eﬁects on your constitution no matter where
you see it from. As you come near the junction of the four roads,

you will ﬁnd road signs which will tell you to ‘ Stop, Look, Listen,
Brace Yourself, Leave it to Fate, and Proceed with Caution’. The
sign of course, applies to pedestrians and vehicles alike. Those who

I”: 05077! N55

”/5 L055 -

unmet/.1... ,

IRREMRIIBLE

to oit.
If I had been Freud, I would have asked him if'he saw his
teacher’s image in these statues. But not being Freud, and on the contrary,

being a man who had constantly been troubled by the memory of this
ghastly apology, I gave him a sympathetic glance. I said, ‘ Bite the
bullet like a man. Take it stoically. Life can’t be all roses. There
will be a few Gajcndra Circles in everybody's life.
Face it like the
otheﬁcalzmities in Nature, rain storm, hurricanes, Rudolf Lobo, and
the .C. .’
‘

That night I offered a silent prayer to the Lord. I prayed for
the men who had been behind this grotesque outrage. I prayed,
‘ Oh Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do.’

’EAII-l I, IIILLION Inc‘s,

”KIWI:
'4“ “

mark 1115 ""3355
we owe
I
um...

