CA,MPASTIMES

of 74ye -t1ye

7lq

lIT has never really been accepted into the
fraternity of Madras colleges. Separated by
distal)ce, and still more by temperament, its
inhabitants pursue life in unhealthy aloofness.
To those within and outside its walls, the
language agitation two years ago brought
home this isolation.
While the others
shrieked, burnt things and spilled blood, we
wrote our periodicals and cursed the weather.
The peace and inaction that prevailed here
amidst the eruption, must have seemed to
many, most of all to us, singula rlyartificia1.
The farcical sympathy strike did not come a
minute too soon, for the others were taking
an increasingly less· uncharitable view of our
differentness. Now, two years later, we
stand exposed to the same dirty looks' again.
There is absolutely no reason why we shouldn't hold our own views, but our estrangement
is a fact.
Undeniably, inter-collegiate competitions
have diffused a little of lIT into the city
and in tum brought them into our hid~out
occasionally. but this has been margmal.
Some personal contacts exist but these are,
for the most part, leftovers from school and
home.
Of the few bridges that span the distance,
the Literary Week can claim to have built the
most. This year again, many talented people,
some not so talented, will join us for a week
of scholarly delight and a little of who is
better than who. They will be as impressed
as we are by the slick outfits, the speeding
Volkswagens, the witty debaters and the
smart secretaries; but the brevity of their
excursions prevents them from knowing the
way of things here more intimately. This is
not to say that humans here are different from
those living a couple of miles away; that these
have horns embellishing their worn-out mugs
or tails following them in court or th:;t they
are floating in the milk of India, as they are
constantly reminded, but who can say that all
people are the same, fOf if they were, Jonathan
Swift couldn't have started a war on • which
way to break an egg' . One needs the
conceit of Time Magazine to evaluate one's
own community, sitting in the middle of it,
but I hope an introduction to our guests of
the nuances of civilized existence here,
whiCh they cannot bope to tee but which are
of the essence, will be in orde"
Because guys here don't find it terribly
amusing to be pulled out of bed at unearthly
hours, six days a week; to stand up to seven
hours a day of futile pedagogy; to fill up,
like clerks, stacks and stacks of expensive
paper with drivel they caJI records and tutorials; and to fill in and spill out pages after
pages of printed wisdom-three times a week,
they have taken to humour with a vengeance.
When one feels like crying and one. can't,
the next best thing is to laugh. Great jokers
like Siddhartha have laid solid C-leve1 foundations for humour in IIT. Nose up in the air,
a twinkle of condescension in his eyes, the
eminent jester was capable of keeping an
audience sick for great lengths of time. In a
different vein, the former registrar, Mr
Natarajan, evolved a new dimension in
annual speechmaking with his admirable
exercises in prepared wit. ·People with far
less knack for the stuff have, in recent times,
followed his example, and if the irascible
audiences have laughed, it is because Mr
Natarajan put them into the habit of laughing
on Institute Days. Our contemporary humorist at large is more than qualified and willing
to continue this distinguished lineage. Yet

this is only the humour of the stage, not of
the people.
A typica J IITian's sense of humour lies
somewhere between the sadistic and the
pornographic, with a hint of attempted cleverness. Gopal Ramachandran on stage and
off represented the spirit of wit here-sick,
neurotic and shocking to those unused to it.
The now dormant Pattabhi of semiconductor
fame was the sick virtuoso of his time. His
present standing as a post-graduate precludes
him from being funny. Lest the moments of
inspiration and their creations be lost to posterity, as in all places that value tradition,
the archives of native humour have been
maintained in places where they are needed
most-last benches. If in the middle of a
serious lecture (they are few enough), a guy
in the far recesses of the classroom bursts out
in hysterical laughter, it is not, as the lecturer
might easily construe, because he has discovered some metaphysical hilarity in the
resonating ~arboxyl radical, but because he
has excavated from under the layers of dust
on his desk, one more gem of some great
scribe, one more utterance of sanity, one more
C snake in the grass' .

By
VIJAY REDDY
Staff-student relationship? Like all selfrespecting individuals, neither thinks very
much of the other. The Staff, operating
from a position of natural advantage, usually
have the last word, but it often happens that
one of the many bright nuts by constant
arguments and exposes, so erodes the credibility and moral sanction of the teacher that
one wonders who is teaching whom. Though
purely unintentional, this is in the modern
spirit of education-a two-way learning
proce$s.
If you aim to reach here by public transport, the Institute Omnibus will help you, for
a ·small charge, but you must be prepared to
rub shoulders and other parts of your anatomy
with native travellers in the bus, who may
number upwards of a hundred on weekends.
If, for various reasons, you are not prepared
for this intimate contact, and the sun is not
too hot, you are advised to walk. You may
stop a motor-bike for a lift but not a car, because the imported ones move too fast for you
to stop them, and the swadeshi ones are likely
to be in no shape to take an ounce more, and
moreover, they are likely to be full. I might
as well tell you that the mo'bike riders and
the spotted deer have long standing feud over
the right of way on the highway. Till Thad
settled the score a few months back, the
animals had the best of the argument. If
you don't fancy any of these uncertain means
of conveyance, start walking. You will soon
be at the cross-roads of your journey. Don't
bother to figure out why there are so many;
we've been trying that for years, but no sooner
do we justify the existence of one, than up
comes the next. If it is dark, then don't take
either of the right two, because you might
disturb people, and one of them doesn't
reach anywhere. If you proceed along the
road to the left, your attention will soon be
attracted by a blinking red light. It is meant
to keep the driver's eyes on it till he is at the
bend, and then to test his reaction to the
ghost of the ex-Gajendra Circle standing in
the middle of the road. Your next stop is the
Gajendra Circle itself. People here get
emotional about it, so you had better not
broach the subject in your conversations.
The newly erected barbed wire fence is to
prevent the much abused elephants from
bolting. The sexless elephants are no family
planning propaganda but our answer to Salvador Dali.
People here are reasonably level-headed except when it is Holi, or when they see Casata
ice-cream. Gate-crashing into Hostel Day
Dinners is not considered ungentlemanly.
The N.C.C. never had a chance here. In
their best turn-out, the cadets look like battle-

19
weary N.L.F. guerillas-the female ones.
Their proudest achievement to date is a halfexcavated ditch which might one day become·
a great bath. The last time they handled
ammunition was in a simulated battle five
miles out in the country-side, when a ne:vous.
ca~et fired a blank, point blank, into the postenor of the chap crawling in front of him.
Movie favourites: Speedy Gonzales the
brave mouse, and Deutschland Spiegel telephone girls.
lIT's Bohemia consists of one dedicated
hippie whose claims to hippiedom rest on a
painstakingly raised blond growth on his face
and a badly tuned guitar, and another who
looks at you from behind a Lantana bush. A
small but accomplished band of Lotharians
represent the Institute at Abbotsbury and
wherever else they are expected. While IIT
sleeps, they keep its flag flying.
The soul of IIT resides in the OAT : tbe
Open Air Theatre. Once every seVen days,
with religious punctuality, two-thousand
wornout lives collect in the depression to
recharge their tempers and wits; to tell their
Jokes and abuse one another and anyone else
they care to include, and in general to let off
steam. They also see a film, God and the
operator willing.
If you find our audiences unsympathetic
and noisy, don't take it to heart: it is just
their way of saying that they tolerate only the
best-in others.
I

'An enclosure or barrier (e.g. a hedge,
wall, railing, etc.) along the boundary of any
place which it is desired to defend from
intruders,' that's how Messrs Little, Fowler,
Coulson and Onions define fence in their
, Shorter Oxford English Dictionary on Historical Principles'. And, by Jove, they are
right! Are they? Well, I dunno. Who ee
gee defends himself against whom by erecting
a fence-fence? hee, hee I Yessir, fence!
Alright, fence-between the wings of Cive
Engineering? We against cows and goats? Cows
and goats against us? Saar, there will be
gaaden! I see. But you wait till the goats
have nibbled off that fence and the cows have
discovered that there's a main entrance to
yonder pastures.

And then there are fences around the future
Staff Quarters, wooden poles and barbedwire. Now, who defends himself against
whom there? Staff against students? Students
against staff? Horticulturists against cows
and goats,? Inhabitants against stray visitors?
Neighbours against neighbours? Dogs inside
against dogs outside? Someone is said to
have detected a watch~tower under construction and become hysterical over the choice of
various foreign models of machine·guns (' But
the Nudelmann is so much easier to handle
and can be purchased on Rupee basis I ') To
his utter astonishment and relief, however, it
was found that the said contraption is to carry
water-tanks.
And then there is a fence between Ra
Bhavan Park and lIT, a solid concrete-pole
and-wire-netting affair several feet high. You
haven't seen it yet? Just take the' road' left
to the workshops, miss the bend, and you'll run
right smack into it. Now, who defends himself
against whom here? Raj Bhavan against us ?
We against Raj Bhavan? No, we against the
spotted deer. CI The famished lion o'erleaps
the fences of the nightly fold", says poet
Dryden. Well, so far as we are concerned it's
not the lion, but the spotted deer that o'erleaps
the fence~, and day and night, at that. (Suggestion : flire them the animals as coaches for
the competitors of the next IIT Intersports
high-jump.)
Folks, let's move to the hostels where the
fenceless plains stretch unimpeded-before
they've put up a fence there, too.
-D. J. NIRMAL.

