CAMPASTIMES

22

Personalities

HYDRRULICS

The two and more

Faces of

(Once upon a time, the water situation in the Campus was pretty
had: indeed, people went round being caustic and cynical. This
article is one of the products of that cynicrsm.)

Dr Swaminathan

The reported decision of our Registrar to rename our hostels as
the Sahara

Hostel, the Kalahari Hostel and the Arabian Hostel, has

raised a chorus of protest from all quarters.

»

@i S

(

l
i

M,

Such drastic steps were

rendered unnecessary when the hostelites bound themselves under oath
to adopt the following resolutions to exorcise the ghost of water that
has haunted the Campus.
1. that a Beatnik Club be formed, with Mr. Randhawa as the
Secretary,
2. that rasam be stopped forthwith in all messes,
l
I

that shaving with our electric razors be banned.
that the tennis courts and the football grounds be closed
(and all vigorous games be avoided),
3.

f

5. that no bathing be allowed in the Campus except under the
pain of immediate dismissal from the hostel, or what is worse, transfer
to the other ”TS in the North. Note: Experiments have shown
that the Eskimos are the healthiest race in the world,

6. that members of the

hostels will Co~0perate with the

authorities in detecting hydromaniacs from Kerala,
7. that tissue paper he provided in plentiful supply,
8. that all inmates shall lick and polish their own plates before
leaving the mess,
that on rainy days, students may be allowed to come out of
the lecture halls and have their baths in the open,
IO. that all chemical engineers in the Campus shall concentrate
upon inventions either to make salt water sweet or to create artiﬁcial

rain by injecting sodium iodide into the clouds that pass over the
Campus,
II. that as a punitive measure, water may be deleted from the

portion for study in the Chemistry exam.,
12.

that the Security Ofﬁcer be responsible for all illicit distillation

of water inside the Campus,
13.

that water may no longer be recognized by its deﬁnition in

the Oxford Dictionary :

....... (well, look it up yourself !)

“A straggling beard streaked with grey,
piercing deep~sunk eyes, a cynical smile—4nd
you are face to face with Dr Swaminathan.

You could also identify him by the lack of a
few buttons here and there.

There are those

who hold that if ever beauty competitions
were to be held for the various curiosities in
the campus, he would have a tough time
coming ﬁrst even if the only other entry were
the Gajendra Circle.

However, appearances

are deceptive. Here we’ve got something to
best the chameleon changing its colour—Dr
Swaminathan before and after a session with
hlS neighbour’s powered lawn mower. Since

Campartim could never afford to ﬁght a libel
suit, let me not pursue this any farther.
Dr $waminathan joined the Physics Depart-

ment m '63. Ever since, nothing has remained the same.

People started actually under-

:tdﬂdtﬂg mechanics in the ﬁrst year classeS. It
would be unfair to him to attribute the positive brilliance of his lectures to his wellmodulated voice with its untracesble accent.
However, it does help to be able to make out
what the lecturer is saying in the ﬁrst place.
Perhaps that‘s the reason why so many of his

collegues talk unintelligibly—they could oertamly take a lesson from him. Even his habit

of occasionally marking the periodical grades
in Russian has its beneﬁts—the guys who are
expecting C’s or worse can keep kidding

themselves till January.
Asked for a few printable facts about his
past career, he replied, ‘ Let the past remain
dead, gentlemen—suﬁce it to say that I was

a rather mdﬁe'tﬁendzzstgdent.’
.mefp. _ t
’t discourage him: he
realizes he ism the good company of Einstein
and others. From which it may be gathered

‘

(.I.7., Angus.“

that modesty is not one of Dr Swaminathan's

REG/S TRARSUNTERSCHRIFTENMASCHINE

shortcomings.
At present he is at Cornell University, perseeutmg molecules and digging out their
private. secrets. But he’ll come back after he

has ﬁmshed civilizing the natives out there.
—-RA‘I‘.

MACH/NE FOR PUTTING REG/STRAPS S/GNA TURE.

L

