CAMPASTIMES

23
‘ haw-haw-hce-hee-har-hee’ echo in my mind

AN EYE FOR A BOOT

till I sink into the ground of'mortiﬁcation?
YliOW ! l ! UGH ! ! l OMIGOSH l Only
a low-down, dirty mind like Botti’s would

It was Killjoy who ﬁrst suggested to me
that I write an article to enlighten the general
reading public on certain goings-on in our
hostel—Hostel X, let's say. Whether you
should thank him or curse him is something
you can decide only after you have read

through my laborious composition.
I will be wise and logical, and say we will
start at the very beginning. Very well, the

very beginning of this affair was when rubber
made Contact with fabric. Perhaps I had
better explain: Botti was bending. Those
who know Botti will know whatl mean. I
won’t say anything about his personality, for
naturally, I am prejudiced, but there cannot
be any controversy over the ampleness of the
proportions of his person. A conservative

estimate of the force with which his radially
symmetric body attracts the earth is in the

region of two hundred pounds. Personally,
I favour a much higher ﬁgure. He would ﬁll
out any decently oversized set of clothes, but

Botti is given to wearing tights. And as I
said, Botti was bending.

My foot itched.

I

had to work my self-control to absurd extents
tolimit my self to a tame, ‘I say, Botti !’
‘ anak ? ’ Botti used that particular inter—

rogativc for almost all purposes. And he
straightened up from his. . . .er . . . .painting.

Don’t blame me ~— it is he who calls it
‘ painting ’. Ours is a free country and every
citizen is entitled to hold his own Opinion.
But I doubt if Botti can be classed as a
citizen. (More like ten, as Somebody re-

marked.) As to the opinion aforementioned,
it is an assault on human sensibilities.
digress.

But I

‘ How about passing back my Machine
Drawing sheet, yar? We gotta submit it

collar me. The hostel was still vibrating to
the throes of his distress by the time Ihad
reached the HSB, or so they tell me.

By the way, his voice.

It is thick and

guttural and makes you think of the Gestapo
coming for your blood.
That’s how it all started: Heaven only
knows how it will end, for Botti magniﬁed this
triﬂing incident into something of colossal
proportions. He has declared Open war.
His ﬁrst manoeuvre has been to paint a
caricature of me on my Machine Drawing
sheet. A dirty trick if ever I saw one. He
somehow managed to stick it up on the
notice-board. All I can say is that this picture

‘ Hard luck, ﬁSh. I have to cog two more
mental reaction P My vote goes to the
reaction. It was a classic mixture of Surprise,
pain and bitter regret.

Surprise, at myself

for not having predicted that the rotter would
do this. Pain, at the thought of having
to

explain

the

reason for

my

tardi-

ness in submission.» “trim-Mm of
four hours of hard labour. And bitter
regret for a wasted opportunity. I was
wearing pointed shoes, and Botti had been

bending. I suppose I said something. I
have no recollection of it, but, Botti later

‘

language was ‘absolutely

ned his remains to the interior of a working
blast furnace. Luckily for him, Botti was separ-

sent me a gibbering note :
‘ Sri Bottifour Battlereel considers himself to be in a state of war with Sri Pootsimboos Unohoo, and declares that it is his intention to pursue this war to the utmost of his
ability . . . . no quarter will be given and
none need be expected.
Now we Unohoos pride ourselves on our

ability to take all things in our stride. We
never let ourselves be weighed down by any
quirk of fate, even if it is as heavy as Botti.
If it was Battle, I was quite ready. Why,
with my superior intellect and remarkable
physical agility, I could make rings around
the odious Battlereel while he was in the process of raising steam in his ponderous system.
I am an admirer of General Moshe Dayan.
I decided to follow his policy . . . . strike
before the enemy has a chance to do so . . .

and strike hard l
Little did I guess that the enemy had already
struck . . . and struck hard 1

but I savoured the moment to the full. It
was along a graceful circular are that the tip of
my patent leather shoe moved.

I am a foot-

signal, indescribably rich in harmonics and
o a power of a couple of million decibels,

assailed my auditory apparatus. They should
check the roof of the hostel for Cracks and .

dingmmd on the spur of the moment, '
I created, fearfulof the consequences. Botti

made an inﬁnity of premises to me in the
interval of time subsequent to his unearthly
screech. And, of course, he gave me -a

detailed description of my ancestry in
juieiest termrimaginahle. Had not my
physical welfare been at stake, I might have
paused to admire this maestro, for Botti is
:past master in the art vulgarly known as
name-calling. But, being possessed of a
modicum of common sense, .I

vamoosed

while he was still in the process of extricating his corporation from the mess of paint
and shredded canvas to which he had reduced his room in his desperate attempts to

As I wended my painful way down to
the mess for dinner, people took a glance at
my stormy countenance and made tracks in
the opposite direction. The normally tasteless chappathis turned to dust and ashes in
my mouth as I watched Botti gulping down
square miles untanned leather and tons of dhal.
In this morass of black depression I found
the genesis of an IDEA.
*

t

#1

Early next day, I left the Campus.

There

is a certain Science College in the City and
I know the Storekeeper of the Zoology department, for I was once a student of. that college.
Ileave you to guess what transpired there-—
all I care to say is that I came back with a
large cardboard box. It would have taken
an acute observer to notice the holes on top.
On the way back, I stopped at the Chemist’s.
I hummed happily to myself through the day
and slept contentedly through the night. For

I knew that the morrow would bring its tankard of joy.
0

*

*

six o’clock. A few minutes later, a disembodied onlooker might have seen ‘a suspiciouslooking ﬁgure leave room number 432,
clutching a large cardboard box. Up the
stairs it climbed, turned off down a corridor,
stalked along its length, and stopped at a
certain door. The occupant was evidently
asleep. The ﬁgure retraced its steps and
waited at the head of the corridor.
If the aforementioned onlooker had sufﬁcient patience, he might have .waited to
see what happened ten minutes later. The
door which seemed to interest the prowler so
much opened at last—and out rolled the
unmistakable form of Botti clad in aking—
sized pair of pyjamas. The door was bolted,

rather, belonged
to the last category.
The G-company may fancy that they manu—

facture the best in the world of locks. It is

describe the world of disaster that struck
me? Shakespeare would have hesitated before commencing on so momentous a task ;
so would P. G. Wodehouse; so do I. Well,
no one can blame me for not trying.

doing so, he bent.
It would have taken hardly three scoonds,

experience.

are deﬁnitely unopenable without their keys,

some click open after a couple of hours of
toil and sweat, and some are amenable to a
little bit of persuasion. Mine belongs
or

A dull explosive thud marked the instant.
A few milliseconds later, an audio frequency

With an air of supreme indifference, he turn-

ed around and recormnenced painting. In

a considerable length of corridor. Otherwise
he Would have undergone an interesting

TRRRRRRRR‘. . . . the alarm went off at

actions.
My literary talents fail me. How shall I

that as it may, Botti put on a show of being
quite unmoved at my plight or by my words.

ated from me by a ﬂight of stairs and

There are locks and locks. Some of them

Applied Mechanics to calculate the momentum transferred at the moment of impact.

be

Pootsimboos?‘ A

pause ensued, while the owner of the monstr—
ous carnival mask took in the details of the
scene that met his protruding eyes. ‘Oh,
I see, Botti? Why don’t ya jazz him Up
in real style?' Another pause. ‘Okay, 1’“
go bury myself.
Don’t glare at me that
way. I’m not Botti l’
lt Wouldn’t be very much of an exaggeration

amongst the sleepy denizens of Zoo X before
I could discover the whereabouts of the attender
and the key to the notice-board lock.
Bah, the next person who laughs at me is
goin’ to get a couple of broken teeth ! The
prospect of another four-hour session with
Tee Square 85 Co. is not calculated to
put anyone in a sweet humour. And then he

ball player. It doesn’t need a professor in

was a triﬂe annoyed

rasped out, ‘How’s life,

to say that at that particular moment 1
could have torn Botti to pieces and consig—

not my intention to make derogatory remarks
about their products, but I must say that I
was let down really hard when I least expected
it. I might have guessed that Botti was some
kind of a locksmith from the Way he dealt
with the notice-board lock, but isn’t that being
wise after the event P ’
And so it happened that I shot back the
tumbler padlock, shot back the bolt, and
entered my room without the slightest inkling
of the Consequences that would follow my

vile’. I admit

A disgustingly Cheerful whistling was wafted in lltrullgll the window. It heralded the
advent of a Specimen called Moos. A large,
unutterably ugly visage materialized at the
window. A voice in keeping with the face

of something labelled me in a not-verypleasant pose created a minor sensation

today.’

ﬁgs. Ya submit it late, thashall ! ’
Shall Idescribe his voice or my immediate

have thought of putting thumbtacks under
the bedshect. Why, people might get hurt l

- There was a noise. A deﬁnite ‘tukk ’. Then
a scraping, yielding sound. A halting thought
knocked at my mind’s door, a hint that something ﬁshy was going on.
‘ The next moment, I was a ﬁsh—metaphori—
callyspeaking. Only, ﬁsh don’t swim in cold

soap water as I was doing. Trust Botti to
think of soap water. It came down and I
was directly in its path, so that I got wet and
so’ did my room. Grrrrr—so I had walked
into a booby-trap—the old, old bucket and
water(?) rig-up.
, My'ears picked up evidence of unseemly
mirth, coming from the lower regions of
thehostel. It‘breaks my heart to think of
Botti &,C0. standing there on the lawn

looking up at my room—and grinning like
so manyCheshire Cats. Will that raucous

and Botti drifted along the passage to the bathroom to perform his morning ablutions.

The sinister ﬁgure moved fast. It nipped
into Botti’s room and popped out again in a
remarkably short time, and before you could
say ‘ Jack Robinson", it had scrambled out of
sight.
*

‘

.

There was a magic tenseness in the air as
I stared concentratedly at Botti’s room from
the opposite terrace. He had just majestically
waltzed in. Developments would occur at
any moment, and I wasn't going to miss any
of the fun. With bated breath I waited for
the balloon to go up.
And oh boy, did it go up!
A. frantic,
inhuman wail rent the clear morning lair.

When Botti chooses to exert his lungs and
vocal chords,he sure can create a disturbance of

titanic proportions. A resounding thud followed by a spluttering, gurgling sound sped

out to me close on the heels of the ﬁrst cataclysmic explosion. And then, a string of ear-searing
screeches which spoke eloquently of inexpres'

sible hordes of painful sensations.
(Continued on page 5).

The door

