CAMPASTIMES

27
With these words and a ﬁnal song he dies.

A THESIS ON INDIAN
MOVIES

How do We know he dies?

The pulse, the

heartbeat, the expression on the face? No l
We know he is dead because hIS picture falls
down from the wall, the lamp blows out, and

we See lightning outside the room. This is
the usual recipe for death in the movies.

When one studies anything for a long time
he discovers a pattern. When Newton studied
the heavenly bodies and the stars for years he
came tip With the Law of Gravitation.
I too have been studying stars and heavenly bodies for years—only these stars and
heavenly bodies are in the movies. And like
Newton, I too have noticed a few things, and

this thesis is a result of my study of Indian
movies.

Every movie consists of the following
sequence of events. All the producers decide
before hand that these sequences will be in-

cluded in their movie.
sequences.

Let's get down to the

nize him. The girl's mom doesn’t recognize
him. In fact even the girl doesn’t recognize
him. He gets kicked out. What does he do P
He does what any normal hero would have
done under these conditions. He sings. This
is a well known motto in movies. If you can’t
say it in prose, resort to poetry.
The hero comes back the next time. This
time the disguise is milder. He has removed
his mush. Again the dad and mom get fooled. Thcy think a sweet little female has come
to see their daughter.
Even the daughter
thinks so. They go to the garden. The
daughter still thinks it’s her girl friend.

Not for long. She soon ﬁnds out. At leastI
think shemust have, because at this stage we

Boy meets girl sequence :

are shown two ﬂowers, two bees, tWo birds in

The reader will realise that if the hero and
heroine don’t meet there will be nothing in
the movie. So they have to meet. Since

a nest, and a table and a chair.

they have to meet, the directors decide to

get done with the incident as early as possible.
Let’s take a typical movie opening. The
scene is the inside of the 'I‘rivandrum Express.
The hero isslecping on the upper berth and
the heroine is on the lower berth. He’s got a
moustache. The heroine is always the one
without the moustache. (What's new?
Lovely girls etc.)
So’ this is the set up. Hero on upper
berth, heroine on the lower berth. The

train suddenly decelerates. The hero continuesto move uniformly in a straight line and
falls out of the berth. But contrary to the
audience‘s fond hope, he doesn’t land on the
ﬂoor andbreak his neck ;, he lands on the
heroine who is 'in the lower berth. You will
realise that this is a very tough thing. Falling
from the upper berth and landing on, the

berth right below is a very hard thing‘to do.
But the hero has berth control. 'He can' do it.
This is 'what Icall going out ofth'e‘ Way to

meet a girl." Butyas' we have seen,"boy_'has to
meet-girl. Fate literally throws them together.
The boy falls for the girl. ,
(It ends with

Well, that is sequence one.
a duet.)

.,

g . .

'

'Sequenc’ehtwo“.

Meeting at thew‘park :" . _ :

The'boyand girl who met ﬁrst in sequence
one,_have fallen in love. They have to see
each other again. Being a modest and shy
couple they choose, as the venue of their loveWEI]? quiet place like thcebeach. zoo, or
Mount

65d.

>_h-

-,

.

p .- ’ -.

’

Resolving the mystery:
This is the second last sequence in any
movie. . Between this and the previous
sequence a lot of. things have happened:
usually a murder takes _place., In a movie I
saw recently, the_murderer leaves behind -a
burning cigar each time. The inspector picks
up the burning cigar, puts it off, and pockets
it. He leaVes the house with a ﬂourish. He
will come soon when the next murder takes
place: (He loves cigars).:
‘sSOrwho is going 'to- solve the mystery?
Not‘ the cops. .It’s‘ (the hero: Heroes' are
versatile. They can' do anything: I’ve/seen
a hero hit a' sixer over the slips. I’ve even
seen a hero who Could act. '
.
Let us see how the hero-Solves the mystery.
Initially there were six brothers in the
heroifie’s house. ‘All her uncles, one by one
they are murdered. The hero is sure that
one of the uncles is the murderer, so he decides to wait till only one uncle is left. He’ll
catch the sneaky rat then. But 'he' is truly

bafﬂed when all the six uncles die. His guess
He sings.

The‘n'ext scene shows the hero, heroine,
and.all the servants in the house.

The hero

knows who the murderer, is. The murderer,
he says, is theforty-year'old cook. The hero
accuses the cook of being, aCtually, a tWentyyear old man, iwho sneaked into the house as
a cook thirty years ago.
The cook denies this stoutly. The hero
catches the cook. Pulls his moustache, It...
comes off. He pulls his beard. It comes off.
False beard. What check 1 He pulls the
hands. They come oﬂ'r; Man! some crook!
Finally we have only a heap of clothes on the

We don't know.

did he do it?

mush, hands and all.
He sings.

What does the 'hero

The song has its effect.

The driver comes forth and confesses.

Why

The driver explains-_ethrough

'wo ﬂowers wingin in the breeze, two‘birds
iii a nest, two bees ying together, and, a table

a song. So I don’t know what he said.
body did.4 --The song was in Swahili.

and a chair. These are supposed to imply a lot
of dirty things. . I 'don’t know what. Maybe
one day I’ll understand. But I don’t think
this is a real picture 'of a boy-meets girl
sequence in India. It doesn’t explain the
population explosion.

The Family Reunion:
1 This is the last sequence. The murder
has been explained- Now the family must
‘rcunite. A lot of surprising Confessions take

sneaking

into

girl's

house

sequence:
We now come to another tricky, point. ' Although the hero and heroine have' no inhibitions about doing the non-sensual things described in the last sequence in a public place,
they are scared to meet in the girl’s house.
So the hero puts on a beard and enters the
girl's house. The girl's dad doesn't recog-

1 once saw a movie whiCh begins With the
heroine as a normal college student. Then
she gets hit by a cycle and loses her memory.

So she runs away from home, falls in love,
and gets married. Now she gets hit by a Rajdoot, loses her memory and becomes a nun.

her complete memory.
So much for the loss of memory sequence;

Let us return to our movie.
i
We were saying that the driver had exglailned the family bush to one and all and

1e .
Now we get the pleasant surprise.

The

movie has ended. The national anthem-is
heard in a trance. ‘You stagger outof the hall.
. You Wonder why. people who agitate over
Just about everything do nothingabout these

movies.
—'.:R'._.SHANKAR.

Ghrcnos for
IA 13206 justittuttoitt
THE PRELUDE
You wait, little lad, in‘the fresher‘stage
For Fate to turn the light on.
Your mind little lad is a vacant page
That many atfox would write on.
THE ADVANCE .
You are sixteen going on seventeen,
Sonny its time to think.
IIT life with hazards is rife ”
And you might be left to sink.
You are sixteen going on seventeen-.—
Seniors will fall in line.
Mystic experts and gastric perverts

May offer you gr:85 andiibrine.
Totally unprepared are you
For torturts in this den,
.
Timid and shy and scared are yet)
Of candleslit at ten.
You need ‘ guidance ’ from someone who’ll

Tell you just what to do,
I am seventeen going on eighteen
I'll ‘ take care ’ of you.

ﬂoor. The entire cook was false—the beard,
do?

Hero

directors.

is the murderer, is wrong.

What does he do ? He does what any hero

hides‘behind a lamp-post.
‘ Tidallytheylfeelall' this is very sillm'd
come near each other. Do they kiss 2 ' Maybe.
Because all we .see next is

The loss of

and knock down the heroine. She regains

Even his mother

didn’t recognize him. Needless to say his
wife and children didn’t either. That’s how
it IS.

has called the police inspector- He says he

.

In every movie.

ﬁrst to his own house.

this. f..rqund....a .d round the mulberry bush'
'Seqtiénee in'silence.. They do it with another

The heroine now hides behind- a _-,bush.
The hero, ,who is under the impression_t_hat
he" is‘very thin, hides behind a coconut! tree.
The heroirfe,".who thinks she is‘ even thinned,

Yes, always.

memory sequence is a famous one with the

her marriage and goes in search of her lover.
She gets hit by a Fiat. Now she forgets her
lover and remembers her parents. On the
way home she gets hit by a Boeing. She forgets her home and goes back to the Convent.
So ﬁnally the hero, the heroine's parents.
and the sisters in the convent, hire an ICBM

would have done.

sequence. . ;

What's all this nonsense about memory going
and coming? Do these things really happen?

believe that a man can look so different by
shaving off his mush. You haven’t seen
enough of movies, buddy. Let me clue you
in.
There was once a movie in which the hero
disguised himself by ﬁxing on a mole on his
left Check. To see if it was effective he went

They begin to run around a tree, a bush, or
eVen a blade=of grass; there has to be Some
sort of vegetation. That’s all. They don't do

place and ”deliberately avoid him-‘1 Maybe
one day I'll understand. Let’s go: back7to [the

the table and lost her memory.
The reader may feel this is too much.

Now she gets hit by a Bullet (3.5hp). She
forgets her having been a nun, but remembers

that an uncle

evadinghimi', This points actually beats me.
Why should a girl'call a chap to "a s‘e‘cl'ude‘d

She goes and sits on the table. It seems she
was a paper weight before she fell down from

You can’t

You think I'm exaggerating.

As soon as they meet, they get down to
business. They respond to their instincts. Yes.

duet: ‘D‘ur‘iii'g’ﬁhe ‘song the herp‘ltriesf'j‘t'o
catch'the heroine who somehow seems to". e

. The death shocks the heroine. Her memory
13 restored to her as a result of this shock.

place.

No-

The driver shoots himself in the

mouth. As he is dying he tells the story.
‘My child', he saw, to. the hero, ‘ I am
actually your father; The heroine is actually
my brother’s auntu The gardener is actually
my step son. _Whom you have been calling
the maid is actually my .wife, and therefore
your mother. The table cloth is actually your
sister. Your siSter is actually the table cloth.
The puppy is actually the family doctor. The
family doctor is actually an Anacin tablet.’-

THE REBUFF
I am sixteen going on seventeen
Innocent as a doe,

Seniors ‘1 meet may tel-l me I'misweet'.
And I must believe. I know.

Though I’m sixteen going on Seventeen,
Hoping to save my pride,
I am aware my chances are bare,‘
Yet kanow who’s on my side;
Still unprepared I Well might be
But I am backed by Sen* ;
_Timid and shy. I do agree,
Now I’ll be bold again.
Wardens‘ Council, robed in gowns‘ll
-Willingly see me through.
Since you’re seventeen going on eighteen
I’ll beware of you.
—,Tsa Scrum.

’ Prof. Sengupto, then Director.

