CAMPASTIMES

f}

.3
4’.

L

tail-end of the graph. And therein lies a

Research &
Development

the
lized fraction of a moron, best known to

authorities as a.aaa, go decided to deviate from
the normal pattern of behaviour by asking the
lecturer some embarrassing question about the
imminent I’lleUDlCAL. A Considerable
percentage of the hitherto slumbering class
perked up and made preparations to grab the

pearls let fall by the Prophet, should he

——A report from Subhuman Sciences

of
perchance have made the tactical blunder

Laboratories

.

making prt-pcriodical concessions.
Professor B. N. Sadist, Dr (Miss) K. Ann
Garoo and Dr Frank Einstein of the

S.S.L. have sent in a report on their
studies of mass decontrol of human
eﬂ‘ort (MDHE), based on data on the

probability distribution of activities in a
typical IITian Class. They chose, for
their study, a batch of the X/Y, Q.
Tech. class attending
moronography.

lecture

a

on

They found that, contrary to the general
belief, the one who is least interested in the

lecture is most often—guess who . . . right !—
_

the lecturer himself.

There are two other notable points in their
records.

. 1. The number of students paying attention to what the lecturer was saying varied
with time throughout the period. They have
During the ﬁrst quarter of an hour, the
process or' dishing out proxies occupied the
attention of a progressively decreasing section
of the class. Then, right in the middle of
the hour, the poor, tortured creature on the

dais lost the remnant of the demitasse of
temper he normally possessed; or rather,

made a gift of it to the class in general,
though, obviously, nobody - wanted it.

The researchers have found that,

2.

An

enterprising spirit at the rear end of the
class had-kicked a tin can down the length
of the room; this explains the above-men-

ill

general, despite the quantum of solace that a
member of the pedagogical professron may
derive from this abject dependence on his

Words displayed by the Citizenry of Tomorrow,
he experiences a bitter inward rcvulston beCause he knows he is a beaten man, whateifer
strategy he adopts. If he is tight-listed wrth
marks, he is marked down as an ineffectual
teacher; if he dispenses the needful liberally . . . Well, Wouldn’t it go against the grain P

It goes without saying that the major
section of the class had yi ldcd to the
soporiferous air and was ‘snatching
winks, unauthorised', to use Dr
Einstein’s own Words. There were
hardy specimens, however, who stayed
despite adverse environmental factors.

forty
Frank
some
awake
Pro-

fessor Sadist paid special attention to such
refractory elements in the composition of a
class.

plotted the graph given below.
Some remarkable facts emerge from this.

He ﬁnds that, of the seven who stayed

awake throughout the period, two were
devouring spicy literature, two were involved
in a heated debate on the absorbing topic of
who would get the prize for ‘maximum
giving and getting of proxies’ this year,
and one was writing a letter to his girl friend.
That leaves us with two unspeakable creeps
who actually LISTENED to the lecture!
A pity; otherwise the graph would have
touched rock-bottom. Dr K. Ann Garoo
maintains that this cross-section is representative of all the classes conducted in the
Institute.

tioned ﬂare-upiand the consequent steep peak

in the graph.

Sadist et al. are going ahead with their

,

The X/Y lecturer in moronography has a

an ununique distinction. >
compromisingly loud voice, and excels in
pyrotechnics.

verbal

But

not

even

his

linguistic blitzkrieg could sustain any intelligent interest in the proceeding—at least,
not any above the level of the much-maligned

Embarrassment

What happened is this: some decrma-

tale.

research programme—and the next aapect of mass decontrol of human eﬂ‘ort

to be studied by them is the cloud of
unexplained and perhaps inexplicable
facts and pseudo-facts that surrounds
the construction of our legendary

During the Secand World War, the draft
board caught up with a young man, and of
course, wanted to pressgang him into a 0.1.

uniform and send him out to ﬁght. Well, this
one happened to be a particularly reluctant
specimen of valour. He cajoled, he pleaded
and he begged to be excused from serving the
nation on the war front.

The President of the draft board was at ﬁrst
puzzled, then angry and ﬁnally furious.
Giving the young man a withering glance, he
bawled out, ‘Wcll man, if you will at least
give me a decent excuse, I might be able to
let you off.’

Harry (for let us bestow this name on this,
so far nameless, cockroach) launched into his
excuse, ‘It is like this sir; sitting here as
I am on this chair before you, there are two

possibilities. They are, that either you will
select me or you will reject me. Well air, if
you reject me nothing could be better ; but if
you select me there are two possibilities.’
‘ Now if I am selected, either the medical
board will pass me or they will plug me. If
they plug me sir, I, will throw a party, but

if they pass me there are two possibilities.‘
He continued, ‘They are sir, that either I

will be‘put into the Marines or I will be put
in the Catering and Supplies. Well sir, if
they put me in Catering and Supplies, it will
be great because I' can make. millions in the
black market; but, if they put me in the
Marines,.therc are two possibilities.
-~

‘Either the war will ﬁnish befOre I finish
my service (and I get a medal of victory for

nothtng),~or I will e shipped overseas to light
ell air, if the war ﬁnishes, I will draw my
‘ _. I. privileges and join an American Univerrigl for free, but if it does not, then there are

a, rther two possibilities.
Taking a drink of water, and ignoﬁnfﬂfe

swimming-pool-to—be.

tough looks of the draft board, he continued,
‘The two possibilities now are sir, that
either I will stand up bravely in battle and

amteba.
——Poorsuuaoos UNOHOO.

Perhaps you’ve caught sight of the wagging

'

‘Well sir', replied the reluctant youth, ‘ I feel
I will be EMBARRASSED if I join the army.’
‘ Of all the ﬂaming excuses I have heard, this
one positively needs crutches to get by l Explain yourself young man.’

NO.“ swum ~b

ﬁght for all my worth, or I will cower in some
shell hole. Well sir, if I‘ do the latter, it is all
right, but if despite the prevalence of the
human instinct ‘of self-preservation, I choose
to ﬁght, there will be two possibilities.
_

‘ Either an enemy bullet will get me or it

won't ; and if it does not, I might even get a
medal of honour, but in case it does there are
two possibilities.

.»

‘ Well sir, either I will sui'vive the wound
and live to dandle my grandchildren on’ my
knee and tell them my memories of them or
I‘Will die. Well sir, in the event of my death
I think there are still tw° more possibilities.’
N

13

‘ Will you cut out the “ well ails ” and the
"possibilities" and tell me what you want
to say i ’ bowled the exasperated board
President.

7...- re) -——-'
O

AN Elll'l‘llll’S JOB

O

O

From: “ MACHINE Dimes”

~ Near the Computer that works for the
Getting out a paper is no picnic.

If we print jokes people say we are silly.
If we don’t, they say we are too serious.
If we pinch things from other magazines
We are too lazy to write them ourselves.
If We don't, we are stuck on our own stuff. ,

Atomic Energy Establishment at Los Alamos
is a sign:

'ACHTUNG 2'

If we don’t print every word of every contribution we don't appreciate genius.

If we do print them the columns are filled
with ink.
.
If we make a change in the other person's
write; up. we are too critical,

If we don’t, we are blamed for poor editing.
Now, like aavnot, some guy will say

We swiped this from some other sheet
We did. '

Allen Looken'aeepera

Unperturbed, the kid continued. ‘ The two
possibilities are that either they will cremate
me or they will bury me. Well in case they
cremate .me air, it is perfectly all right but
if they bury me there are two possibilities.
' ‘Either a tree will grow on my grave or it
won't; and if it does grow at all there will be
two possibilities.
‘ Either they willcut the tree down for timber which is all rightbut they, instead, might
decide to aend'it to the paper notiﬁcation.

In that case sir, there are two possibilities.
Das Komputenmachine is nich't fiir
geﬁngerpoken, und mittengraben. Is easy
schnappen der springwerk, blowen fusen,
und poppen corken mit

ittzenspar-

ken. Its nicht fiir ‘gewer n by das
dummkopfen.
Das rubbernecken sightseere'n keepen
Handen in das Pockets—relaxen and
watch das Blinken Lights.

‘ Sir, either they willinake me into ordinary
writing paper and then I have no complaints
...... ..but........'ust imagine Sir if
made YOU INTO TOILET PAPER
WOULDN'T YOU BE EMBARRASSEDB?
He was excused.
-—C. Small.

rm.“
Edited by P. C. Venkatachelam. Published by Prot. S.Sampathand Pridted wcamyumnmriéurarnduanuor

