YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT

There is good news for the readers of the campus pUblications.
Reports indicate that it may not be long before the cyclostyled or
rotaprinted sheets can be turned into food

Q

A process now being

developed in the SCAP0GQAT section of the Chern Engg Dept involves
extracting the

glucos~

from the cellulose content of the paper, then

feeding the glucose to a batch of edible yeasts, molds or bacteria
inside a fermenter

Q

The protein left over would be

dried into a

powder and used as a nutrient.
Dr Indigenous Mfr has said in a press statement that this process
which has been developed with German collaboration will be very useful for the proper utili'zation of the paper r€'$ources of lIT and other
premier institutions of this country.
Dr Indigenvus Mfr has been feeding pellets made from the campus
mags to the deer ,in the campus, and he says that they are thriving on
This will, of course, present a new problem for the printed

them~

media. Not only will the 'editors of CT, Focus, and Spectator have to
worry about how th'eir wordS will affect the reading public, but they

will also have to remember that people are going to digest them.
One question is: What news will be more diqestible than the others?
Should you start the morning with a light break fast of comics or a
heavy breakfast of CT edit'orials? What beverage do you
hot

a~d

se~ve

piping Focus editorial? Would it be a mistake to

with a

eat a

Spectator PJ before going to bed?
Dr Indigenous did not concern himself with the contents of the
pulp he fed the deer, but 1 believe a lot more research has to be
done before we permit ITTians to eat the different types of paper
availaple here. We do know that most people get indigestion when
peruslrlg their corrected perio papers, but we are not sure how their
gastric juices would react if they started chewing on therno
Another question

which~would

be asked: If the editors discovered

that there was more publicity to be made from food in their papers,
would they not insist on sugar-coating the news?
In a few Y0ars, we could expect a series of cook-books wr1tten
jointly

by

the

m0SS

supees and the editors of the campus mags on how to

