~ ~ ~

SOCIETIES

Writing in 'Film and Feeling' , Durgnat despaired, 'For the masses, the
cinema is dreams and nightmar-es; or it is nothing.' Film societies exist
to show that cinema can be something else too, that 'Bicycle Thieves' is
cinema and 'The Towering Infenno' a consumer product.
India's first fiI~ ~ociety was founded in 1937. It was the Amateur
Cine Society in Bombay. In 1947 and two months after Independence, the
Calcutta Film Society was formed. Ray was one of its founders. In 1951,
the first bulletin of the CFS \qbserve¢t, 'The cinema in India has suffered
from an almost complete lack of thought and sensibility, and the film
society movement is perhaps the only ground from which a new concept of
Indian cinema can spring.' Thirty-one years later, Indian cinema isn't
much different with 'Qurbani' running for fifteen weeks and '36 Chowringhee Lane' for one.
Film societies, it seems, haven't made much impact. Realizing the
importance of these societies in 9reating and nurturing a critical sense
in the audience, the Government did its bit by allowing the screenings to
be tax-exempt and it also spared the films from the erratic scissors of
the censor board. The last concession has caused the membership of the
societies to grow for the wrong reasons but exposure to good cinema
inevitably follows.
The Film Society in our Campus, the IITFS, screens, over the year,
a varied range of films: th~ avant-garde cinema of France, the thrill~rs
of Germany, the neo-realistic cinema of Italy, the films of Bergman of
Sweden, the cinema of Montage of Russia, the new wave of America the
'art' cinema of India: it's-a long list -- from 'A Bout de Souffle' to
'Nishant'. Becoming a member of a film society is like subscribing to a
magazine -- you may not like all that is presented, but you will find
enough you like.
Of all the emotions that t~e ,other films evoke in the bosoms of the
three hundred or so members of the IITFS -- the groups of casual viewers,
the searchers for 'depth' • the exploring dabblers, the inveterate movie
buffs -- awe must be the most often felt. Joy may, and often does, come
later. What is entertainment is so often decided by what is supposed to
be entertainment -- practically guaranteed sensations -- that a new kind
of experience is too soon rejected as far-fetched trash. The Arts demand
patience.
For one thing, the contents make sense. 'Sense' is clear by itself,
not the kind behind 'Laawaris' O~ 'Walking Tall' •
For another, the films have 'form~ While 'sense' comes ~rom simple
reason, 'form' requires the director's imagination and skill in using
film. Special elements of the film -- shot (longTshot, mid-shot, close-up),
montage (joining of shots in a sequence to show a transition), camera
movements from one image to another, dissolve and have to be combined
expressively. '36 Chowringhee Lane', for example, has good filmic form
and as much sensei it bagged a prize at Manila. 'Ek Baar Phir' has lot
of sense but no impressive form~ it can't make it to a festival.
The Russidn film-maker and theorist V. Pudovkin says of cinema at
its best.
'Cinema is a synthesis of all arts, yet independent.

