KATYAYANI

People aren't male-chauvinistic enough to say that girls are meant
only for literature, and they aren't contemptuous enough of literature
to say that it's meant only for girls. but there's a general opinion
tiJat girls and literature go togethero
Katyayani was literature. I first met her in August '67, when I was
doing Low Temperature work in Hyderabad. I was tooling semi-aimlessly in
the Library stacks for a biography of Karnarlingh-Onnes or Dewar (beard
there wasn't much love lost between theIDI)Jwhen I saw a harried female
face throW the book-racko We stared at each other.
Then we met in Max Mueller Bhavan, and with the speed of onceTmet
strangers in a new place, we built up communications. Katyayani was a
mouthful for me, so I called her Kathy. She was way ahead of me in the
German classes, so I thought of making a bahana of her teaching me some
Deutsch fundas. But the LT lab swallowed a whale of my time.
One day I fixed up a date with her at a lodge near Ringsway. She
didn't comeo I saw her at the German classes two days later, but she
seemed to avoid me o With the class atmosphere there, before I could
try anything, she had effectively removed herself from me.
I didn't see her for a while. I was hesitant about inquiring at
her college, and firmly decided not to try that angle. A week later,
I

went to her college.
For a sudden panicky moment, I feared she had left Byderabad for

good. I didn't know where to start searching. It would be absurd to
walk along the corridor, peeking into each room. I frittered one hour
away before I saw her with a group of other girls and boys at a changeof-class time.
We hi'd and I turned dumb as sbe said, 'See you.' Of course, she
had her classes.
Hajaar people will have hajaar squared reasons for not seeing hajaar
other peopleo I saw half of a bad movie that night and thought over the
priorities of my near futureo The LT business was my only hopeQ I was
ruining it with a certain couldn't-care-less attitude, and it was time I
pulled up my socks.
Months

pass(~d..

I got a job involving quality control in a firm for

