15

trAining is an integral port of the metallurgy curriculum and is a
4-credi~ ~

course.

year for the student.

Ditching this training would mean loss Df a
Morenver,

is the prerogative of TISCO.

fiD~lising

the

d~tes

of the traininq

In fact, at one stage, we fenred that

TISCO might schedule the training such that it clashed with or
overlapped the inter-lIT meet dAtes.

Luckily, this did not hAppen.

The number of days of training is fixed.
We did our best by convincing the rest of the c18ss - with
great difficulty - and adVAncing our semester exams subject to
constraints laid d0wn by the Dean cf AC1demic
terl in CASeS where indivirluals

h~d

Course~.

This resul-

to write three Sem. examS on

c0nsecutive days.

We left for Jamsherlpur the day After our sem

exams were OV8r.

All this enabled us to squeeze in five days of

training At the camp - the best we could do under the circumstances.
It is unfortunate that the 'discerning' writer did not verify these
facts before going to the press.

During my absence, I delegated

responsibility to a particular captain and he did a gnod job.
Mr. Ahobala Rao would also be aware of the fact that an
entire class will not alter its tour programme to suit the convenience of one or two classmRtes who happen to be members
inter-lIT contingent.

~f

the

In fact, one of the clAsses on industrial

tours was that of Mr. Ahobala Rao; and he is in a better position
than I am to talk about whether the tour could have been postponed
or canceller! for the sake of i"l microsc'lpic minority of the c18ss
who were members of the contingent.
cl~ss

One of the students of this

joinerl the team At KharRgpur and turned in a good performance.
Last semester the PTls of city colleges went on strike and,

consequently, no inter-c811egiate t'lurnaments were conducted in
the city.

It is for this reason t-hat we were not Able to hold the

Sriram Memorial and Seetha Memorial tournaments.
with

M~rdi

Gr~s

Incidentally,

'82, the Bertram tournaments, the Stanley sports

festiVAl, St. Joseph's (Trichy) centenary tournaments, lIT Open
House and the uniVersity exams (which commence in March), I wonder whether We Ci"ln c'lnduct tho tGurnaments this year.

To say that

practice matches were not OJrgnnised for our teams is an utter falsehood, to say the least.

Practice matches were organised not only

during the c9mr but also for two months preceding it.

Mr Ahobala

