Date: 28 • 2 .1981 •

Issue No. 5
EDITORIAL

~The response to the call for articles seems to be fading away.
We hope that the prize of Rs. 20 for the best article of the month
will galvanize you into writing something. Articles published from
this issue onwards, are eligible for the prize.
Two inmates seem to have been busy in the Histech class and
have written letters to the Editor. - Keep it up!
This issue carries a puzzle. The first person to solve it
correctly should hand in the written solution to Chandramouli in
room no. 152, or slip i* under the door. The puzzle carries with
it.a E!~!!_2!_~s~ 12. As soon as it is. solved, the name of the.
pr1ze W1nner and {fie correct solution w1ll be put up on the not1ce
board. The prize winner will be given his prize the same evening
at 7:15 p.m. in the mews.
Every week there will be a different contest - e.g. blurb
contest, photo caption contest, etc.
Kudos to Suresh Babu and Kondaiah. Our picturesque garden
has won the Institute prize for the best garden. This is the
result of the combined hard, sincere and dedicated work of Suresh
Babu and Kondaiah. Mention must be made of the NSS volunteers
who helped in the process of beautification.
On Tuesday, one of the sheets of the RAG, which had been
pinned at all four corners, had been removed under mysterious circumstances. The sheet was promptly retyped and replaced. On
Wednesday, three sheets of the Rag had been removed by Vellaiswamy.
They were eventually found crumpled and creased in the back pocket
of the common room boy, the Rag having been audaciously removed on
the pretext of putting up some new notices.
Now let us make one thing clear: If the RAG has to carryon,
we must be given full access to one half of the notice board.
Thanks to Karthik, Asst. Warden and Moses, we hope the matter has
already been taken care of.

******
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Sir,

The standard of articles is pretty good, and
is improving issue by issue. Stylo has real talent,
and I enjoyed his style of writing. Another thing I
wanted to say 1s that MANDAK RAG always seems to have
articles only on or concerned with Mandakini. Is it
not possible to include articles pertaining to Institute
activities or things in general?
I suggest a column be started in which opinions on
a certain subject be given every week.
Mandakini
Rajeev Jayaraman.

**
Sir,

The last issue of MANDAK RAG was superb. Many
shady things about the mess have been brought to light,
thanks to Hogpot. The article about Otto von Gepik was
simply a 'freak out'. Last but not least, the absence
of PJs I really appreciate. I hope many mowe issues of
the MANDAK RAG come up.
Mandakini
Raghavendra.
P.S.: The article about Pane Rao was a bit too mild.

******
WHAT'S

WHAT

Plates: Circular arrangements to keep the dirty food off the
clean tables; found to be useful acoustic sono generators,
when the vocal c.ords cannot do any more.
Chapaties: (World leather selection award winner.)
Tough breed of little, round pancakes. Incidentally, that's
where all~your enamel has been going. (CLRI research going on
in our mess.)

