- 2 Poories: Vegetable oil sponges with a retaining capacity of 500
ppuv (parts per unit volume).
Queues: A suitable training ground for the ypung Indian whose
life is measured by the number of queues he is in. You stand
anywhere in the mess, and you will find yourself in the
middle of a queue with angry tenor and soprano protests from
behind.
Extras: Leftovers. It's your funeral if you get coaxed into
buying more of the stuff.
Gooier: Buckets and buckets of piping hot water.
Glass: See tumbler.
Tumbler: For which glass is a misnomer. Made of steel-coated
cast iron with a dark hue that effectively hides the colloidal
suspension of water in it. Of course, it's too late when
you find out.
Spoons: Use with acoustic sono generators(viz. plates). Incidentally, each spoon has a completely balanced diet sticking
to it.
Mess Sec.: An individual who eats his meals under the table. Of
course, he is to blame for everything, but can't.be found.
Rice: Available in all shades. More shady stuff forthcoming.
Poisson: French for fish and English for Mandak grub.
Vegetables: Strictly non-veg, with bits of toes, hair, gents'
fingers, etc.
Cool drinks: Long time no see.
De-servers: The only guys who are really concerned about all that
sop you eat. They remove most of the stuff before you can
fully poison yourself.
Tables: Useful arrangements to spill things on, so that you can
identify the stuff hidden in those buckets.
Chairs: Oh! You'll never find them anyway_
Sambar: A convincing imitation.
Curd rice: Healthy stuff for unhealthy guys. May be mistaken for
pudding, were it not for its pleasant odour.
Rasam: See hot water.
Manager: A lie detector with X-r~y eyes - effortlessly makes
calculation mistakes.
Fish: The Bongs call it peesh. The veg guys don't have to be
told what it is it has a convincing aroma.
Butter: C.g.s. unit of volume of fat.
Jam: Expensive squashed fruit that comes in two attractive flavours
- cough syrup and antipar.
Coffee: One tumbler per person, please!'
Tea: For those who don't get foo.ed by the coffee.
Cats: The only ones that are wise to the food.That·s why you too
need eyes of two colours.
Buttermilk: Obeys Raou1t's law of dilute solutions.
Hotchpotch: Potato peels submerged in a sea of leftovers,permitted
coluring agents,beetroot,etc.
Ho*teler: Mutant breed of homo sapiens with corrosion resistant
stomachs.
Cutlets: Browned non-veg potatoes.
Buckets: 'Handles!' with care.Sustained in vertical position by
gyroscopic effects.
Roy Matthew.

******

HOWZAAT!
- Chelluri.
The Melbourne cricket stadium is considered to have the greatest
d~stanc~.between the pavillion and the pitch.
Once, during the body11ne ser1es, an;- outgoing batsman passed the incoming one. 'I
'It's a long walk,' whispered the new batsman.
~Yes, but only one way.
The stretcher will bring you back.'

