FROM THE EDS •.(lS ANYBODY

LISTENI~?)

'Eds may come and Eds may go
but I will go on for ever-.
- old CAMPASTIMES saving
(with due apologies to Tennyson)
So CAMPASTlMES walks on to yet another year. Trudges would be
a better way to describe its gait. It is a perpetual conflict
between supply and demand. An economist might be intrigued with this
case,for the supply just never meets the demand! And so year after
year each editor in a futile attempt to bridge this yawning shortfall
of articles, goads the otherwise lazy IITian to 'rediscover his hidden
talents' and come out with something creative.
We used to wonder what drove these tireless editors on this
seemingly endless hunt. Now of course its no more a mystery for every
dream these days (and classroom climate as such is very conducive for
it), has as its primary ingredient one ~1ng, enthu, IITian saying,
he has an article to gi~e for CAMPASTlMES. So Pick your pens, write
on anything you like, or ,don't like and pass it on to us.
There is much talk of 'improving' the standard of CAMPASTIMES'
~rticles, and boring articles abounding, et
ale But instead of
generally relegating the whole gamut of articles as . 'arbit' or
'painful', why don't you,give us some constructive criticism 1 We
will be glad to implement your suggestions. We want to start a
'Letters to the editor' column, to help'us in this respect. So write
in your views. We are waiting ••••••
A common malady with a 'literary mag' such as ours is that it

ends up remaining an exclusive preserve of a limited few. The vast
majority merely takes a perfunctory voyage, hopping from one page to
another. Perhaps, the article evincing maximum in+erest is a crossword!!
This simply
means that the general reader assumes it to be a
magazine filled with either mundane or esoteric articles, neither of
which interest him. The tendency of the editors to stick to a ~mall
clique serves to further distance them from other students. So help
us bridge this gap.
Here's looking forward to an enjoyable year with you.
Happy reading.
_ Eds.
-~-

