TO BE OR NOT TO BE (IN CLASS 1)
The rumours had been floating around all day
was bent on imposing its will on the students.

~

the manaqement

Conversation in the

classrooms, canteens and libraries hovered around the same topic.
Then the news came 1 it was brought by someone who had obtained it from
one of the peons working at the administration building where the
Senate meeting was going on.

The rule had been passed.

Student leaders now swung smoothly into action.

Classes were

emptied of the students and protest demonstrations.were held in front
of the

Director~s

house.

Very soon a full blooded strike was in

progress.
The scenario pictured above might take place in any college
except lIT Madras.

The reason is not mainly the much maligned student

apathy - though it certainly would be a contributing factor.

The

real reason would be in the fact that even now most of the students
attend about 80 to 90% of classes and hence would not be affected by
the rule.

The small minority that is going to be affected will not

be able to produce a demonstration of sufficient force all on its own.
This is a most unfortunate state of affairs.

The vast majority not

respecting and unwilling to protect the rights of the minority.
It may be argued that this rule is beneficial to the student
I

and as such there should be no question of his protesting against it.
Let me point out that what we lose

~hrough

this rule is far greater

than the measly gain of a slightly improved academic standard.
What is now lost is the trust that had been reposed in the
student - the belief that the student was a mature and responsible
individual.

With this will also be lost the self esteem that stems

from the fact that his elders regard him as an adult capable of
making self determining decisions.

Further the student and the

management will now be perceived as being on opposite sides of the
fence.
From this will develop a mentality of competition, of cold war,
where the aim will be to get as much as possible from the other while
~yielding as little as pos~ible.
~verall

In fact, I have a feeling that the

percentage of classes attended may actually come down as

people attempt to exactly fulfill the minimum requirement.
All in all, this rule will not pring about qreat

changes in

the physical life of the campus - here it will be bUSiness as usual.

-

2.-

