THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE - REWRITTEN
Thomas Hardy's original novel was a gloomy and emotional version
of the Mayor's story. He, like most novelists of the period was hell
bent on proving that Mayors, like all other human beings only came on
earth to go about being a) terrifying b) morbid and c) nuts.
The story begins with the hero Michael Henchard and his wife
Susan eating porridge at a fair. Their baby Elizabeth (we'll call
her Liz for short, though 'Liz for short' is as long as 'Elizabeth')
also wants some, but as
the porridge contains rum (and Daddy is
very firm about his daughter's morals, whatever his own may be) she
goes hungry, while drunk Henchard gets the bright idea of selling his
wife to make some money. His theory is - there are wives and wives
but who'll par~ with good money? As it happens a sailor thinks otherwise and buys the wife
A very good bargain too as the daughter was
thrown in free to clinch the deal.
J

•

Michael Henchard, filled with remorse and a hangover swears to go
straight and this road takes him to the town of casterbridge where he
becomes Mayor. Don't ask howl Meanwhile he also has an affair with
a beautiful girl named Lucetta who belongs to another town.
(And no,
inter town and inter caste wars do not figure in this story.) He then
engages a new manager,named Donald Farfrae. Enter Henchard's wife
and grown up daughter, who decide to sponge on the Mayor as the sailor
is missing.
With the predictability of a Hindi movie Farfrae falls in love
with Liz but (and here's the twist) marries Henchard's girlfriend
Lucetta (the morals of those degenerate days!). To twist the tale
further Susan dies and Farfrae divorces Henchard (oops resigns from
Henchard's factory) and Liz becomes Lucetta's friend and lives in
her house, with Farfrae as her ex lover getting more embarassed by
the minute.
And then it turns out that Liz is not Henchard's daughter but
the sailor's and then Henchard goes broke and the sailor comes back
(now that the daughter is rich enough to support him) and Henchard
sends him away and Farfrae brings him back and Lucetta conveniently
dies and it's all very confusing indeed. Rather like the guns in_a
Perry Mason book~
Anyway Liz and Henchard quarrel and the upshot of it is that

