THE 'RING
It is a typically crowded day at the annual carnival in the
main city SQuare.

The hawkers' calls are drowned in the hustle and

bustle of the people thronging the place with their little ones.
Sam's eyes follow a man ambling along with a kid in his arms. His
gait attire and demeanour characterise him as a well to do fellow with
a pampered kid occupying most of his attention and all of his arm.
In short he is a very vulnerable victim.
Sam almost nonchalantly jOins the queue behind hi s quarry.

By

the time he has bought the ticket for the entrance to a stall, he is
a good

I

~100

richer.

No one dare suspect that the wallet in his

pocket did not belong to him just a short while ago.
That was more than five years aqo.
job of a receptionist at a local hotel.
seek

Sam then took up a respectable
The days of constant hide and

were well behind him. Though he had been at the receiving

end of a judge's sentence a couple of times, in his chequered past, he
considered it all as past history, almost as if it never existed.
Sam's life as a receptionist was pretty much routine and
would have remained so had it not been for a new guest who checked in
the Qther day.

More orthodox persons would have stopped at calling

her pretty, but for our Sam, she was Helen of Troy personified.

It

must go to Sam's credit that he wangled a date with her by the end of
the week!
She was an outgoing lady with an independent mind.

Perhaps it

was Sam's simplistic view of life that attracted her, but it was a
fact that soon she was head over heels in love with him.
her

ever~bit

Sam told

of his past and she believed him when he told her that

all his escapades were behind him.

They sure were an ideal couple.

Thev were one among the numerous love birds flocking the beach
that evening.

It was their favourite meeting spot.

They ensconced

themselves on a bench and after talking for over an hour on this and
that Paula suddenly said "It is my birthday tomorrow."
"Why didn't you tell me before?" exclaimed Sam.
"Just wanted to give you a surprise," she said in defence.
"Never mind, just tell me what you would like for a present".
"Something to adorn my ring finger 1"

she replied and with a

mischievous grin, turned and scurried off towards her house.

6-

