Sam could hardly control his joy as the import of
her words
sank into him. He would surely get her the best engagement ring
that money would buy.
His euphoria died down the moment he looked into his balances.
His job as such did not leave him much scope for savings and his
evenings out with Paula were hardly helping his finances. ~o what
was to be done? He couldn't surely slip a cheap ring over Paula.'s
finger.
As his gaze fell on a pair of soft rubber soled boots and
mittens gathering dust in a corner, ~n idea began to take shape in
his mind ••••••••
'. Would he be able to pull off this last one?", was a thought
continually nagging Sam, as he stalked his quarry, a 'well fed'
olump woman sporting a huge ruby studded gold ring. He imaqined a
breathtaking Paula with the ring vl ow1nq prominently. With a shake
he brought himself back to reality and waited for the woman to turn
the corner. Speed was of essence. He had to mingle with the crowd
before she raised an alarm.
Just as she turned the corner, Sam moved. His movements were
gentle and such as not to cause any attention. She just felt a
gentle, shove and a light tug, no more. Disregarding it as another
of those collisions which are an integral part of a busy day, she
moved on. As Sam neared the main highway, he heard a shriek and saw
a crowd gather round the woman. With a shrug of h{s shoulders, he
moved on and hailed-a cab to his apartment.
The calm ocean at a distance with a rew small waves breaking
gently on the beach, seemed to reflect the emotions of two of the
inhabitants nestlinq in each others arms. Sam had carefully placed
the ring in an ornate jewel box which seemed to suit the magnificent
ring inside.
"My mother wanted to meet you.

Why don't you come over for
dinner tonight?" asked Paula. "She is a very charming person,
always smiling. But unusually, she was quite upset today."

"Why?" asked Sam.
"She lost her big ruby ring. It was a family heirloom.
don't worry, she'll get over it fast."
Sam stood petrified.

But

As if from a distance he heard Paula

- 7-

