EXTRACTS FROM 'A GUIDE TO CAMPUS LIVING'
(When almost about everything in the campus seems to be made for the
U.G. (and modified to suit the P.G.) including Registration cards and
Guides to campus Living, here is a preview of an exclusive guide for
the PGs)
Ref: lIT Madras Publications 1987, "PG's Guide to Campus Living"
@ GCU lIT Madras
When you arrive at Madras
Just look for the self appointed volunteers - I mean the auto
drivers of Madras Central. Even if you cannot spot them there is no
need to worry. It means that you have alighted from your train/bus
at Egmore Station or Thiruvallur Bus Stand. Their counterparts at
the respective auto stands will be present to welcome you.
This friendly man will show you the entire city under the pretext
of taking you to the lIT. Beneath this hospitality and warmth is the
autometer which ticks an astronomical bill by the time you reach your
destination. Usually cribs'of any sort will not be entertained by
him reqarding the money due to him. Desperate measu~es like showing
him the recommended fare (Rs.30/-) in this guide will either induce
uninterrupted laughter (which is the time you can escape to freedom)
or make him look disdainfully at the guide and ask you if it is a
pre-independence or a post independence publication.
If you however wish to avoid SUCh adventures and reach the campus
by bus please remember two important rules:
1. You may not sit next to an old lady/woman/girl of more than 2 years

of age even though the seat next to her may be empty (This is not
Bombay/Delhi).
2. Buy a ticket to your destination whatever may have been your
earlier habits (This is not Bombay/Delhi).
Ragging
(Undergraduates, please skip this page)
The word is forbidden now .~. (but not the activity)
Ragging in lIT parlance has always meant 'a "not necessarily friendiy"
chat with the staff members, senior PGs and UGs. It would help you
to prepare proper rejoinders to questions such as:
Why this of all the branches?!
What is your Gate Score?!

