THE COLOUR OF LOVE
Inspector Albert Van Dyke stared through the immaculately clean
windows of his office, over the barbed fence and the simmering metal
of the serpentine road that stretched to the worst kind of habitat
ever used by man. A part slum part city that was Soweto. The fresh
riots had taken a heavy toll of the police forces of the Republic of
South Africa but the brunt was borne by his men at Soweto.
The inspector had been witness to a kind,
of carnage whose
horrendous magnitude would not be comprehensible to any but those who
had been a part of it. Van Dyke had the reputation of being the most
cold-blooded ever of the Inspectors who had served in the area. He
had only one mission in life, or so his subordinates said - the
complete, the complete annihilation of those 'vermin', as he called
them, the black men in white ruled S.A. His deputy, himself no mean
believer in the imperiority of the whites and the necessity of
maintaining their age old domination over the blacks, whom he
considered only barely capable of any but menial tasks, had shuddered
when faced with the intensity of hatred Van Dyke harboured against
the majority community.
Van Dyke never. talked about it but it was common talk among his
subordinates that this man had been a genial man not very long ago.
A kindly family man. But the vagaries of this protracted and vicious
struggle continuing in the name of the colour of a man's skin had
warped his simple mind, his very being.
Many a gory detail was recounted for who knows the nth time, of
that day when Van Dyke had walked into the open door of his home.
Sylvia and David his two cherubic little loves had not been at the
gate to welcome their father home. Well, the man with a strange kind
of foreboding had run into the house on the outskirts of the white
township.
Like a mad man he tore through the ransacked rooms shouting the
name of his beloved wife and children. There was no response. How
could there be, corpses never respond.
Van Dyke's eyes had become bloodshot his hands had trembled as
he beheld the sight of three wantonly mutilated bodies in the cellar.
Those bodies had that morning seen him off to work as his wife, his
son, his daughter. His wife, his son, his daughter were no more.

14- -

