Van Dyke did not burst into tears, he did not shriek. The sorrow
lay all locked up in his heart. All he felt was a numbness, a sense
of being dead even in life. Then he had found the note pinned to
the body of his daughter with a knife.
, Can you recognise the colour of this skin? '
That was all that the note said. It, sent a searing flame up
the being of Van Dyke. His aim in life would now be to wreak havoc
upon the black skinned vermin he knew were responsible for this gpry
deed. He would have his revenge.
That day witnessed the birth of a ruthless officer who did not
hesitate to kill to exact a personal vendetta.
The phone rang.
Van Dyke picked up the receiver and listened.
A smile played upon his lips and. his eyes glinted. But his face now
was- a mask of sadistic hatred. He barked out orders for a truck to
embark with a force of SO policemen, armed.
Van Dyke got in beside the driver and the armoured truck set out
trailing smoke to the trouble spot~ the makeshift incarceration
centre at the street
where the captive blacks were hela afberthe
recent round of ar,son and murder at Soweto. The reason: the men
had. tried to beat the guard and escape. Confusion still prevailed
as Van Dyke and his men entered the prison precincts. The armoured
car was pelted with stones. He ordered the vehicle to stop at the
centre of the compound and the men to step out and shoot to kill.
Human shrieks rent the summer air and soon the acrid fum,es of
the police guns mingled with the stench and filth of the camp.
Van Dyke saw two blacks grab the nearest armed police man
and as one choked his windpipe the other let go a~burst of fire at
Dyke's men with the gun he wrenched from the man.
Van Dyke took aim and fired. The black seemed to cluch at his
throat where a crimson stain appeared and spread. Van Dyke turned
his attention to the second man and finished him off with another
round.
Van Dyke ran into the black mass of women and men running from
the police fire. Cursing loudly he fired at them. He came upon two
women hiding beneath the stairs to the main office. He shot them
point blank, satisfied to see the'terror of death in their beady eyes.

-15-

