He ran further to the western perimeter and the fence.
was no one there.
his eye.

There

He turned, but something caught the attention of

He sprang back and saw two smali diminutive black figures

staring out at him in fear over the barbed wire of the vegetable
garden of the prison.
Hate welled up in him again as he saw the two black kids look
at him.

These were the vermin who had butchered his beloved ones. He

lifted his gun to fire and then his eyes met the eyes of the two
young ones.'

Round black eyes set in small glistening black faces.

Small curly hair on the small head and the tiny hands gripping with
all their little might the barbed wires of the kitchen garden fence.
A fear of something the young minds felt but could not comprehend,
writ large on tneir faces.
And slowly Van Dyke's anger and hatred seemed to evaporate.

'How

could these innocent ones be punished for a crime they did not commit?
Who was he to extinguish the living light from their eyes1
dropped down and self revulsion gripped him.

His eyes

Had he come down to

that lowly state of being a savage to snuff out young lives1
He looked up again at the two
the two pairs of eyes.

faces.~till

staring at him were

His David's eyes, his Sylvia's eyes 1 1

put the gun back in its holster and walked over to the fence.
children cowered away from him.

He
The

He sat down on the grass,this side of the fence,on his haunches
and smiled at them.
their

After a few seconds the children broke away from

petrified state

and walked towards him with slow and

unsure steps. The fear not fully erased but some trust having crept into
their expressions. The two came up to the kitchen garden fence and
the small black hands curled once more over the wire.
He held out a hand to them.

They looked at hls hand outstretched

and then at his smiling face and the two innocent faces broke out into
smiles. Those smiles seemed to radiate and fill the world around
Van Dyke with light and warmth.
He lifted them over the fence and one on each side of him the
young ones walked, their small hands barely encircling-his massive
wrfsts.
In that moment of time Van Dyke knew what it was to really love.
Not just one's relatives and near and dear ones but the entire

- 16-

