THE BAN AND AFTER •••••
This was two years back.

It was the 16th inconclusive meeting

of the subcommittee on Higher Education Policy, presided over by none
other than the chief henchman of the

Mini~ter

and attended by a

faceless crowd of secretaries, under secretaries and just plain
secretaries,of various interconnected departments ot the mighty
edifice that was the

Gov~rnment

of India.

The important man was in

a surly, agressive mood and none dared to open his mouth.
Then the important man spoke, "I see that 70% of the budget for
higher education goes to the lIT's.
Nothing.

And what do we get in return?

What I propose is that we impose a ban on students

travelling abroad after finishing their degree.
do, I think."

A heavy bond would

And he looked around triumphantly, for as he expected,

the motion was passed without a murmur.
After the letter from the Ministry reached the Director, the
campus was in an uproar.

The Senate was hurriedly summoned and there

were scenes of muted jubiliation as the modalities of implementation
were hammered out.
The SAC met and deliberated weightily on the situation.
members of the august body'offered valuable suggestions.

Several~

In the end

a resolution was adopted unanimously, soundly condemning the new.
stricture and a subsequent resolution decided that in the next meeting
a letter would be drafted to be sent to the authorities in the
Ministry.

The minutes were duly prepared and exhibited on all the

notice boards.
The GSB was petrified - shocked beyond comprehension as the full
implications of the move penetrated into them.

Years of apathy, sloth

and indifference had taken their toll of the rebelling abilities of
the GSB, but this ultimate news brought them in a rush to the fore.
There was even some talk of a strike but as with other things at lIT,
it quickly petered out.

Letters of protest and indignation appeared

in the campus magazines and in one or two of the newspapers.
rumoured that the

u.s.

It was

was a bit perturbed at losing a steady supply

of talented, law abiding students and dashed off a letter to the
Ministry to this effect.

The students, not to be outdone, organised

a march, with the complete paraphernalia of banners, loudspeakers,
posters et aI, but to conserve energy, confined themselves to the
campus.

-18-

