FACADE
Ramu, the tailor b~y was one very happy boy as he watched the
sun sink into the clear waters of the temple tank. The chirping of
the birds brought into his mind pleasant thoughts as he sat on the
steps of the temple tank smiling to himself.
"Thuck" went a stone into the water, breaking his reverie and
Ramu was jerked into the harsh reality of the present: Vision of his
drunk father beating hjs mother flashed through his eyes and he
dashed for home only to find his father had not returned from the
liquor den he used to visit. He could hear his mother in the kitchen
of their ~wo room hut with its cracked mud walls and holey roof
preparing their dinner. He ran in to tell her the good news.
The very thought of the kindness of the lady of the big house
brought tears into his eyes. He told his mother about how she had
found him crying outside his school after one of the customary beatings
by his father.
She had taken him home, promised him her son's old clothes, books~
she had also offered to help him with his studies. As Ramu narrated
this to his mother, the vision of a rosy future danced before his eyes.
His one ambition had been 'to study well, to become a Big Man and take
care of his mother.
Just as he finished he heard some swearing in the street and
immediately a man lurched into the hut and collapsed on the floor in
a drunken heap. This heap was Arumugam - Master tailor by title and
professional drunkard. His way of lashing out at society and its
bigwigs who had dealt him such a lousy hand was to drink one or two
more and beat up his hapless wife and young son.
Poor Ramu neither big enougn to stop his father nor small enough
to ignore him altogether was in his own private hell and the
glimmering of a way out was Just starting to shine through the darkness of night.
Raja was the son of the "big house", a spoilt brat petted by
doting grandparents, and everwilling father. His mother Sheela was
Ramu's guardian angel. A graduate in Sociology and Economics, she
considered herself to be a very fair and just lady. She had
grandoise plans of working for the betterment of the poor, she felt
she treated all her servants as her social equals. The grooming of
Ramu was the cornerstone of her social welfare policy.

-

2,0-

