On hearing someone callout for Ramu, his mother came out into
the street and

~ediately

recognized the visitor as the lady of the

IIbig house" who had been so kind towards Ramu and whom Ramu had been
eulogising at every available opportunity and just -then Ramu arrived
to relieve his flustered mother.

Sheela said "Ramu, this velvet

cloth is to be made into a jacket for Raja and I have brought another
shirt for measurements.

There is to be a costume play in his school

tomorrow and I want the jacket by evening".
this opportunity to help his benefactress.

Ramu was thrilled

~y

He sat up half the night,

cutting and stitching the jacket and finally slept over it.
The day dawned bright and clear and Ramu woke up to find he had
to rush to school.

He decided to give the finishing touches to the

jacket during lunch time and give it to Raja in the evening.
The job was completed to his satisfaction in the lunch time
though he had to skip his lunch to do the same.
school and counted out the afternoon classes.

Ramu went back to
The clock finally

struck 4 P.M. and the attendant rang the bell to dismiss school.

A

light hearted Ramu ran all the way home,for his deadline was 5.00

P.M~

and then TRAGEDY struck.
On reaching home, he found his mother lying battered in a
corner and his father 'in the other in a drunken faint in a pool of
vomit with the jacket also lying nearby stained with vomit and dirt.
Poor Ramu stood there stunned.
time?

Now how could he give the jacket on

What reason could he give?
Later in the Ubig house" Raja was throwing a tantrum and was

egged on by his grandparents.

The old lady shouted at Sheela "This

is what comes of trying to raise people above their stations." Cha,

Ellame Neram Than!"
to the tailor's house.

This ignited Sheela's temper and she ran down
Sheela screamed at Ramu.

"You ungrateful

wretch, after all I have done for you, you pay me back this way.
If you hadn't wanted to do this little favour for me, you could
II

have told me and I would have gone to another tailor.

Ramu stood

there -crying in silence,which enraged her even more,and she kept
on her

tira~e.

With each word of hers, Ramu felt his dreams

shattering into littfe bits and falling all round

h~.

Finally an

infuriated Sheela stepped inside the hut to tackle Ramu's parents
and she stood there SHOCKED.
The battered mother in one corner, the drunken father in a pool
of vomit in another and the jacket (stained and dirty) lying nearby.

- Z1-

