A WALK IN THE WOODS
'lIT has a large campus filled with sprawling.woods·, says the
G~id.e to Campus 'tJiving tor something like that) and at firs~ sight
the forest does seem to be peaceful and idyllic. But after a few
weeks stay at IIT-M, one realises that all is not well with the woods.
The problems it is beset with are many-cutting of trees for firewood
(which. ,seems to have incr~ased sharply this sem.), uncontrolled
construction.of buildings. pollution (atmospheric and sound), li~ter1ng,
use of the fdrest for various shortcut~ and as an open air tOilet,
stray dogs and cattle, use ot the lake for washing clothes and fishing,
even ~oaching of deer ~ the lis~ is endless, It is only a matter at
time before the GTCL will read 'II~ is filled with desert and soncrete
jungle'. Maybe in Q years, maybe ~n 10, It is ent1rel:y" up to us·, the
sampus residents to decide on what sort ot a legacy we are gOin9 to
leave to future IITians.
However, the whys and wherefores of the denudation and degradation
•
•
of our campus will not be taken
up here - there be~ng
a separate campus
publication to go into such issues. Of oourse, it remains to be seen
whether the new editorial board of the aforementioned magazine w.ill
tackle such major problems which can cause irreversible damage ~o our
environment, or will content themselves (and the GSB) by raking up
non-issues like 'PG pr~lems' and continuing to flog dead horses like
the attendanoe ~ssue, ~ich has been the case in the past. Let us
instead, ~ook at and appreoiate wh~t our campus has to of~r us in the •
form of wildlife, before it is too late.•

.

Mammals, reptiles, amphibians and fish are rather poorly represented
here. Commonly seen m~als are axis deer, black buck, bonnet macaque,
common mongooses, bats, palm squirrel and black naped hare. Jackals have
been sighted an occa6~on. The only reptiles present are lizards,
monitors, turtles and a 5-foot orocodile, living in one of the oxidation
ponds, out of harm's way. Interesting fish, including catfish with
barbs and some garishly coloured fish with large poisonous spines on
their backs, can be seen when p~ople fish with nets at the lake.
The most interesting creatures are the birds (of the feathered
kind). Over 70 different species have been spotted and identified here.
Some of the common birds that you would have seen but may not have been
able to identify, are described below.
The Stone Curlew is a brown-streaked ground bird with long yellow legs
and distinctive white 'goggles'around its eyes. This bird should be
familiar to those who jog in the stadium. Many can be heard making 1

-

