Editorial
The fourth annual number of ' Pradeep', we hope, will be read and liked
by all because of its small size which, of course, is inversely proportional to the
standard of the articles contributed.
All of us know that Mr. V. Srinivasan (Gold Medalist 1966), one of our
brilliant students, is not an Eve-teaser but a brain-teaser. His contribution,
"' Brain-teasers' is meant for those who want to be mentally alert and it is felt that
his article which is based on aptitude tests will help the readers to become members
of ' MENSA', a society for intellectuals.
Elsewhere you will find hilarious Ananthu in a pensive mood. Writing
about Stanford University and American Universities in general, Mr. Ananthu
points out the defects in our system of education and also the rebellious attitudes of
the student community abroad. Through his article he educates the most
educated.
Dr. Gopichand's 'Musings' are thought-provoking. He offers solutions for
the present day ills. Kind hearted, sincere and hard working, Dr. Gopichand
means what he says when he advocates the policy of earnestness' and hard work
for the progress of the nation. Written in simple style, with words well chosen
and pregnant with meaning, Dr. Gopichand's article will touch everyone's heart
and make him feel the responsibility he has to the nation as a good citizen.
With the news of Departments at a glance, Alumni Directory and other
interesting information' Pradeep', we are sure, serves the intended purpose.
Alumni Days come and go but what remains for ever is the joy that one
gets by meeting the old (not in age!) and the new friends. The Alumni Association
is doing its best to keep its members well informed. about what is happening at
I. I. T., Madras.
This may perhaps be the last time the editorial is being written in a stuffy
dark room opposite to Chemistry Lecture Theatre. Arrangements are being made
to shift the Alumni Office to the new Administrative Building.
I

We remember with gratitude Prof. Sengupto who inspired us in the past.
His liberal contribution of ideas, advice· and articles for Pradeep always
encouraged us.
It is said that the pursuit of knowledge should be the aim of everyone. In
the Alumni office pursuit of lost contacts is a passion. We appeal to all to renew
contact with the Alumni Association and keep it posted with the latest news.
We wish every one a bright future.

