Education about Education
By

T. S.

ANANTHu

Stanford University is situated in what the residents of Palo Alto and Atherton claim
to be the richest part of the richest country in the world. Natqrally, therefore, when I set
out from India I had expected to see a set of contented, well-dressed, disciplined students
studying under conservative, learned Professors in a formal atmosphere similar to that existing
in our "Public Schools" in India.
Imagine my surprise, therefore, when on my very first stroll through the Stanford
campus what should I come across but a "protest rally" in their main quadrangle-the rally
being held to protest against a variety of things, ranging from the Vietnam war to the
"injustices" existing in their society, to the "outmoded" ways of teaching existing in their
Universities. And in the class room these students behaved in a manner that was not only
not formal but, from Indian standards, alnlOst ill-mannered-dressed not in suits, ties and
boots but some times even in shorts and slippers (some were even barefoot, though this is rare),
drinking away coke, while the lecture is going on, shooting questions a~ teachers without
ever bothering to stand up, etc., etc. Some of these students told me that what was lacking at
the rich, privately-owned Stanford University was the social consciousness and liberal
mentality that existed in the State-owned University of California's Berkeley campus, just 32
miles away. So at the very first opportunity that I got, I paid a visit to Berkeley.
, That was in the summer of 1965. Those were the first and most violent days of the
so-called Beatnik and Vietnik movements, and Berkeley was both the origin an~ centre of these
movelnents. So you can imagine what I found there.
Since those days I have often wondered what my lIT friends conclude from reading
newspaper descriptions of student unrest in foreign Universities. I remember one of our
favourite pac;times while at lIT was to discuss the million and one ills that we thought were
widespread in the educational institutions in India. In those discussions, most of us used to
assume that these gross deficiencies in the educational system, whether due to technical
incompetency or mismanagement, were peculiar to India, and certainly did not exist in the
economically advanced countries. Are the events that are taking place these days on campuses
all over the West indications that the same maladies that frustrate the college youth of India
prevail in the rest of the world too? Should Indians give up ('fforts to learn the techniques of
education from the United States and other foreign countries? I thought 'Prade( p' would be
an ideal forum td present some thoughts on this question. I must admit that what follow are
purely my own views. But, lest you skip the rest of this article on the very justifiable ground
that you are not interested in the views of just one insignificant person, let me hasten to add
that most Indians and Pakistanis in the U.S: with whom I, discussed this question have the
same or very similar views. Well, here goes:

