2
There is no denying the fact that there is a great deal of discontent and disillusionment
among students both in the U.S. as well as in Europe, as is evident by the recent disturbances
in New York, Britain, Berlin and France. The last is in a state of complete chaos as this article
is being written. But there is a distinct difference between the causes of discontent in the
West and in India. Many of the causes that exist in one place do not exist in the other. There..
fore, anyone familiar with the internal working and set-up of Indian Universities can still find
a lot of ideas worth importing from the U.S. Incidentally, the 'vice-versa' is also true-U.S.
Universities could perhaps find a solution to some of their acute problems by seeing the way
they are handled in Indian Universities.
In fact, I found my one yeaes stay at Stanford to be not only an education in engineering, but also an education in education itself, the methods, meaning, importance and usefulness
of education. No doubt, I found a lot of things in U.S. Universities which we would be foolish
in adopting-but then that too was an integral and important part of the education in education.
But it is perhaps more useful to list here many things in American Universities which Indian
Universities might find very profitable and rewarding to adopt. To mention some of the
more striking aspects:( 1) Perhaps the most Qbvious disparity in the American and Indian educational
systems is in the formation of the syllabus and the requirements for obtaining degrees. The
total lack of choice presented to the Ipdian student is a matter of regret. Those of us who
have gone into "practicallife"-be it in industry, education or research-now realize how the
basic educational blckground needs differ from carrer to career. Surely the same dosages of, say,
Industrial Management or History and Culture, is not required for a person going into pure
research as for a person whose principal objective is to take over his father's business or move into
other kinds of administrative positions. I am not advocating the total elimination of any subject
for anybody, for all subjects are useful to allY student no matter what his career. But regulating
the amount taught depending upon the future plans and aspirations of the student will certainly
lead to better utilization of his precious time. In the U.S., every student, even at die high
school level, plans his or her own courses, in consultation with an adviser. The enormous
flexibilities offered by this system are obvious. It is also possible for a student to change careers,
if he so desires, at any stage and yet lose only a minimum of his valuable time, for the courses
that he has already taken in fields related to his new career get "accredited" to him, and he
doesn't have t6 start all over again. In addition, this system helps faculties and students of
various departments to keep in touch with each other and sometimes even leads to the
discovery or formation of entirely new or ((amalgamated" fields of study; for example, the
Department of Engineering Economy at Stanford University recently "evolved" by the joint
interest shown in certain common areas by departments specialising in such diverse fields as
Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science, Industrial Engineering, Operations
Research, Economics, Business Administration and Statistics.
(2) There is a maximum limit on the number of lecture hours (including practicals)
per week that a student can elect to attend, and this limit usually works out to around 18. To
those of us used to the compulsory 39 hours of class room work per week, this might seem an
awfully light load, far from it, for each lecture, an average of around 3 to 4 hours of
preparation and home work is required. This has the great advantage of enabling a student
to learn every thing that has been taught until the previous class before attending the next

