3
class, and also of enabling the teacher to go much faster in the class on the assumption that
everyone is "up-to-date" with what he has already taught.
(3) I was one of those IITians who almost fainted in the examination hall when
presented with a question paper that contained no "choice". In those days it seemed so unjust.
But now my views on the subject have undergone a complete transformation. The "choice"
presented to u~ gave us the "opportunity" to omit certain chapters we did not like, and therefore in later studies we kept omitting those chapters or portions of subjects which required as
back-ground material the chapter we had omitted previously. For exampJe, an Indian student
who came here from quite a reputed Instit-ute in Bombay had skipped much of Electronics
while doing his B.E. in Electrical Engineering. The result was that he was completely a fish
out of water here, for, in the U.S. Electrical Engineering is synonymous with Electronics,
"Heavy Current" Electrical Engineering being considered almost "obsolete". Further, the
introduction of choice in question papers brings in the question of gambling and risk-taking, and
is unfair to the student who is really and honestly in pursuit of knowledge. Of course, to make
the removal of "choice" effective and useful, we will have to change our entire approach to
studies and especially to examinations. Open book examinations, with questions trying to
test the "fundas" of the students, rather than his cramming capacity, will have to be introduced.
Most examinations in the U.S. are open book, though I cannot say that all the question papers
I have seen have satisfied the ideal objective of testing a student's real knowledge. However,
the vast majority of them satisfy this difficult criterion, and this proves that the system is
practical and possible, apart from being certainlYI more desirable.
.
(4) Attendance is never compulsory in U.S. Universities. Most lecturers follow a
text book, and are not ashamed to admit it or reveal its name. If a student thinks he can
better utilize his time by staying at home and reading the book rather than attending the classes,
he is free to do so. The wisdom of his decision is tested at the examinations, thus preventing
irresponsible students from taking undue advantage of this freedom.
(5) The "syllabus" for each course consists only of the bare outlines, and it is l~ft
to the instructor to teach what he thinks best in the manner he thinks best. The freedom given
to the instructor, both in setting the contents and pace of teaching as well as in the examination
papers and their grading, is enormous. One result is that the course content, especially of
technical subjects, is extremely dynamic, incorporaJ;ing the latest trends in the field and often
supplemented by discussions on articles in recent technical journals.
(6) Then of course there is the "sernester" system. The year is broken into three
(in the case of Stanford and a few other Universities, four) portions, and in each portion a
student starts and completes the number of courses- he thinks he can handle, which is generally
five for a full-time student. In this manner, the student is never burdened with 13 or 14
examinations simultaneously, and yet learns as many subjects within a year. The reduction in
the "density of subjects" (measuring in terms of number of subjects to be learnt and retained
at a time) also helps him to comprehend and digest a subject more coolly and thoroughly.
(7) For the vast net work of engineering colleges that have sprung up all over
'India to be beneficial to t~e economy, cooperation and joint efforts between the industry and
these colleges is imperative. In the U.S., much of the research work in Universities is financed
by industrial organisations, and employees of these organisations are given incentives in the
form of tuition refund (tuition can run as high as $2,000 a year), hours off from work for studies,

