8

RATING
1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

Superior
Good
Fair
Poor
Very poor

18

20

14
17
10
13
6 - 9
Below 5

Musings
By
Dr. T.

GOPICHAND

A friendly letter from Mr. Hariharan suggesting that I should write for Pradeep
stirred my soul. Prof. M. V. C. Sastri's brilliant idea that teachers should also become Alumni
Association Members has helped me to retain the link with past associations. What can be a
more glorious tribute to the idea that "Teachers and students are two faces of the same coin"
than Prof. M. V. C 's idea of calling both of them Alumni and making them remember each
other at least once year through Pradeep.
Once I saw a caption written by a rebellious youngster on a black board at I.I.T.,
Madras-" In youth one looks forward, in old age one looks backward and in middle age one is
disillusioned". Age can be counted by years from birth but one can always judge a person for
what he ."is" not by his age. Human nature being what it is, we can see around us young
people who are cynical and frustrated and old people bursting with energy, thinking and
acting young.
Why should I bring this question of age? I would like to remind my friends these are
"Musings". Does It mean waves of thoughts and memories? Yes, or let me say that is what
I meant.
I remember the first independence day and first republic day being celebrated with
pomp and glory. Expectations ran high. I can recall Jawaharlal Nehru's speech on the midnight
of 15th August 1947 ... "to wipe out tears from eyery eye". As years passed by I remember
reading the bulky ,independence day numbers of news papers printing a glorious future. But
what are we as a Nation to.day ?
One of my young student friends, years ago, invited me to take part in a seminar
on "Who is responsible for the present fall in standards?-Teachers or students". I politely
refused. I do not believe in being frustrated by eye catching slogans like "Fall in standards",
"student indiscipline", "Brain drain" etc. Much worse, I told my young friend that I do not
believe in fixing responsibilities. It is at best an academic exercise, which I abhor. I told my
young friend "Let both teachers and students work hard and let the devil take care of
standards" .
Every thinking, patriotic soul, I think, should worry about the present day situation in
our country, in every walk of life. The average Indian is honest and hard working. It is the
intelligentsia that should provide a direction and meaning to our activities. May be the

