9

intelligentsia have to wrack their brains, make their hair grey, work hard and suffer, to provide
the brain and brawn of our society.
Look around. Everywhere we have bound ourselves with rules and regulations. Who
is afraid of whom? I do not know. Is it not a legacy of the old, a system contrived by the
British to rule the multitude by a handful? An honest administrator once confessed-As long
as the paper certificates are in order you can do anything you like, but you cannot do even a
right thing when once the papers are not in order.
We lack challenge in our vocations. Our educational pattern does not contemplate a
challenging task. We take the best students, select the best teachers and pay them well.
Everything is done well. But the same story everywhere-our teachers have frustrations
and our students are equally disillusioned.
~

It is true that we are slowly throwing every thing we believed in, in the past into the
melting pot. We have not yet crystallised our ideas. Contentment is a sign of decay and
unrest is a sign of progress. Can we state our aims and objectives dearly (without the usual
high faulting hypocrisy) and organize bands of hard working people? For long we have
practised stability by being conservative at the price of not caring for quality. Individually
we are all good but as a team we are not pulling in the same direction.
Honest hard work pays in the long run. There are no short cuts for making a Nation.
Can each one of us ask ourselves, every day, how much honest hard work we had put in ?
The frustrating obstacles will be there in any country. It is only we, who worry about them,
a little too much.
Once in a committee, I blurted out, that every good idea is systemarically killed and
buried in our country. An American friend sitting by my side as an advisor said "so it is in
my country. You young folks have to stick your neck out and cry from house tops what is
good and fight for it". How many of us are prepared to sacrifice and fight for the good we
believe in?
Even John Kennedy had to remind his country men "Ask not what the country has
done for you. Ask what you have done fox: your country". Such is the price to be paid to
attain good for the country.
Let us look back. When Gandhiji started non cooperation movement to fight for
independence, did he not face obstacles and frustrations? How many doubting Thomases cried
that independence cannot be attained that way?
Can we practise what we preach? Can we work hard, fight and sacrifice to propagate
what we think is good? Can we forget our troubles and push ahead and create a faith to do
our best for ourselves and Qur country? Can we recognise talent and give it the place of
honour, rules or no rules? Can we stop bickering about the obstacles we have, and think about
what we can achieve?
Let us say yes and start doing it.
achieving progress in every walk of life.

ii

Let us remind ourselves that we are capable of

