Excerpts from the ICampastimes'
1.

September 1967.

"BIG FIVE MEET "-The Directors of I.I.Ts. met at Madras to discuss routine
matters concerning I.I.Ts. and also to review questions of grave concern. About the language
issue they aU are of the opinion that English will continue both as the medium of instruction
and as the medium for conducting the joint entrance examinations.
"HUMOR IN UNIFORM "-Major Jaffery was trying to impress the freshers. 'We
are here' he said, 'to inculcate in you, discipline.' The next moment the cadets were given a
rifle each and were ordered to rush madly off in all directions shouting" Charge ..... "

I I.

October 1967.
Notice':F/Acad/67

23-9-1967
lst Asvini 1889 (Saka)

Sub.: Periodical Tests.
I am desired to inform you that the decision to cancel the postponed periodical tests
remains cancelled. Instead there will be no periodical tests during the terminal examinations~
Assistant Registrar
Academic.
Copy to: Head of Depts. (with 12 spare copies).
Ac-l/Ac-2/Ac-6.
Announcement: The swimming pool will positively be inaugurated at the end of the rainy
season at the foot ball field.
Asst. Registrar (Admn.).

III.

December 1967.
Prof. B. Sengupto laid down office as Director, I.I.T., Madras on 10th December 1967.
At a farewell function held on 5th December, glowing tributes were paid to his role in the
development of this Institute by the staff and students of the Institute.
From here and there:

Exhilarated by the masterly performance of one of the world's leading puppeteers the
audience left the central lecture theatre, the life like movements of the puppets still fresh in
their minds. According to the puppeteer Herr Albrecht Roser the IITian audience consisted of
the most appreciative and critical spectators he had ever performed for.
SportfoUo:

26th December, 1967, will see the five sister I. I. Ts. pitted against each other in something one would expect to be not quite in the live. The fifth lIT Meet is being looked forward
to with eager anticipation.

