11
IV. February 29, 1968.
(i) Research to be augmented:
Dynamic, that's the first impression we got of the new Director Dr. Arcot Ramachandran. The Institute, he feels, is now ready for the great leap forward to become the best
of its kind in India.
Dr. Ramachandran believes that an Institute like ours does not stop growing. He said
'We must cooperate with industry both on individual and institutional basil. First we should
go to the industry, identify its problems and solve them successfully. Then industry will be
confident of our capacities and our name will be made ..... '
Since teaching and research go hand in hand the Director said that~ any creative
research worker would consider it a privilege rather than a burden to teach. He was prepared
to give any amount of incentive to research workers but being exempted from teaching would
definitely not be one of the incentives. Equipment belonging to any department would be
available to anyone in the Institute.

(ii), Classified Divertisements :
Film Club's public notice : In view of the language trouble the following schedule will be followed at the Saturday
night movies; Cartoons in Tamil; Main picture (upto interval) in Hindi. Last half in English.
It is hoped that the three language formula will provide suspense and entertainment in its own
measure. Any inconvenience caused is also regretted.
Secretary-Film Club.

P.S. Watch for our next week's cartoons :-' Kattai Kadai Kothhara Kozhi' (Woody Woodpecker)-Mootaippoochigal Muyal (Bugs Bunny).
(iii) Invention Award for Mr. Sivaprasad Rao :-

Mr. Chinthapalli Sivaprasad Rao of the Faculty of Chemical Engineering has been
awarded Rs. 500 by the Inventions Promotion Board of the Government of India. This award
was for his successful manufacture of "chromotographic grade silica gel" from den or flue
gases from superphosphate plants. The product was manufactured by Mr. Rao entirely in the
Chemical Technology Lab. in our Institute using the most simple equipment. Mr. Rao is the
first person from any of the I.I.Ts. to win the award.
(iv) Jrom htTt and there:
The open air theatre will soon be closed. Barbed wire fences will be erected around
the pride of our campus bringing it down to aby')smal depths from transcendal heights.
Admission to film shows will henceforth be restricted to holders of film club tickets-tickets
which can be stolen, misplaced or lost.... But fences can be broken and restrictions circumI
vented by film~crazy fans from ITT, Velacheri and the neighbouring institutions. In any case
the beauty of O.A. T. will be a thing of the past.

