Depa rtmenta I News at a Glance
Department of Aeronautics and Applied Mechanics :
The Air-craft Structures Laboratory is being constructed behind the Fluid Mechanics
Laboratory and is expected to be ready soon.
A model of the HJT-I6 Air-craft, fabricated by the workshop of the Aeronautical
Engineering Department of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore was acquired. This is a
versatile model, in which the wing and tail assembly characteristics can be varied over large
value. Fabrication of wing models for the smaller tunnel is in progress.
The Department continues to be active in its research projects. Dr. A. Klein and
Dr. N. V. C. Swamy of the Fluid Mechanics Laboratory were invited to participate in the
Specialists' meeting on Boundary Layers held in the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, last
December under the auspices of the Commonwealth Aeronautical Advisory Research
Committee.
Dr. N. V. C. Swamy of the Fluid Mechanics and Dr. R. S. Alwar of the Elasticity
Laboratory are among those who have been offered fellowships by DAAD for working in
Germany for a period of 12 months. Dr. B. V. A. Rao of the Vibrations Laboratory has been
awarded the Alexander Von Humboldt Foundation Fellowship-67.

Department of Chemical Engineering :
Seminar on "Developments in Chemical Engineering" has been conducted from 4th
to 11 th February, 1968. Thirtyseven delegates from Industrial and Research Establishments
from all over India took part in the Seminar. Fifty papers on Fluid and particle Technology,
Heat and Mass Transfer, Mechanical Operations, Applied reaction kinetics and reactor design,
and a number of related subjects of interest to Chemical Engineers have been presented in this
Seminar.

Department of. Civil Engineering :
The significant event in the structural engineering section this year is the inauguration
of building work for the Structural Engineering Laboratory to be set up with West German Aid
under the Second Indo-German Agreement. Prof. Karl Kordina of Technical University,
Braunsweig, West Germany, visited the Institute from 7-1 .. 1968 to 17-1-1968 as adviser for the
Planning of the Laboratory and th~ equipments.

(i) Air Comprec;sor with demolition tool, (ii) Balancing Unit for Electrical Strain
Measuring Bridge, (iii) Photo Elastic Equipment (iv) High Precision Manometer , (v) Current
Meters, (vi) Photo and Workshop Equipment and (vii) Universal triaxial testing equipment
have been received.
Mr. M. H. Abdul Khader has submitted his Ph. D. thesis on 'Analysis on Curvilinear
Flows in a Two-Dimensional Transition from a conduit to free surface'.

