13
Mr. Sukesan Nair, Research Scholar in Structural Engineering has submitted his Ph.D.
thesis.
Dr. W. Hensen, Professor and Director of the Franzius Hydraulic Engineering,
Laboratory, Technical University, Hannover, W. Germany, visited the Hydraulics Laboratory
on 30th November, 1967.
Dr. Plahn, German Professor joined the staff on 8th January, 1968, as Visiting Professor
in Structural Engineering.
Dr. H. R. Rama Rao joined the staff on 14th November, 1967, as Lecturer in
Hydraulic Engineering.

Department of Electrical Engineering:
The High Voltage Laboratories have received a 200 KV Schering Bridge for the testing
of insulators. Our measurements laboratories have received a special purpose Automatic Calculator. The control engineering laboratories have acquired a servo-scope and certain types of
transducers.
Research activities have been progressing with increasing momentum.
raman, Lecturer, has submitted his Doctoral thesis for evaluation.

Mr. Thulasi-

The academic activities were given a considerable boost due to the short time visits and
lectures given by four German Professors, all of them leaders in their respective fields of
specialisation.
(i) Prof. Doring, Microwaves anti Antenna
(ii) Prof. Sattler, Electrical Machines Theory

(iii) Prof. D. Kind, High Voltage Engineering, and
(iv) Prof. W. Leonhard, Control Engineering.
Plans are under consideration for the commencement, from the next academic year, of
two additional specialisations in the M. Tech. course, namely, (i) Electric Drives, including
Traction and (ii) Radar Technology.
It is hoped that these courses would serve to meet the developing needs of our country
in the fields of industry, transportation, defence and space research.

Department of Mechanical Engineering:
Three water turbines, Kaplan, Francis and Pelton turbine have been commissioned.
The design, development and manufacture of prototype of a milling machine has been
undertaken for a local firm in Madras. The designs of various elements have been worked out
by the post-graduate students and the work has reached the stage of fabrication. This milling
machine will have 12 spindle speeds and the speed gear box has been designed to be the most
compact.
A Ultrasonic Drilling Machine and a Horizontal broaching machine have been
received.

