14

Dr. Hermann Heitmann has taken up position as Assistant Professor in Metrology and
Machine Tools, Laboratory during November, 1967.
Mr. Gopalakrishnan has joined as Lecturer in the Turbomachines Laboratory.

Department of Metallurgy:
Under the auspices of the Local Chapter of the Indian Institute of Metals, functioning
in the Department, the Fifth National Metallurgists' Day was celebrated on 15th November,
1967. A special lecture on "Development of Mineral based projects in Madras State" was
delivered by Sri T. N. Lakshminarayanan, I.A.S., Secretary to Government, Department of
Industries, Government of Madras.
The final year B. Tech. students went on an educational tour and underwent training at
the integrated iron and steel plants at Jamshedpur, Rourkela and the alloy steel plant at
Durgapur, besides at the National Metallurgical Laboratory.
The following are the important items of equipment added to the laboratory in the
last few mon th~ :
1.
2.
3.
4,
5.

A. microhardness tester,
Radiation Survey Meter,
Polarograph,
Spectrometer,
Universal Colorimeter.

A special fatigue testing machine to study the 'Inter-action of creep and fatigue at
elevated temperatures' has been constructed by Mr. V. M. Radhakrishnan of Mechanical
Engineering Department, who is working for his Doctorate in this Department.
A unit for deposition of thin films of metals in vacuum is being set up.
research projects taken up earlier is progressing satisfactorily.

Work on other

A number of metallurgical problems from the industry are being investigated in the
Department.
Sri R. K. Srikanta Kumaraswamy has been promoted as Assistant Professor in the
Department.
Mr. H. Md. Roshan has been promoted to the post of Lecturer in the Department.
Dr. K. Srinivasa Raghavan left for Iowa State University, U.S.A. for post-doctoral
work.
Dr. H. W. Wagner and Mr. E. Fischer have joined the department as German
Professor and German Foreman respectively.

Department of Chemistry:
The usual tempo of research work is being maintained in the various branches of
Chemistry. Some much needed equipment is expected to be purchased shortly from the
American Petroleum Research Fund. A team of Advisers to the Federal German Ministry of
Economic Cooperation, headed by Dr. Kerekhoff, visited the Department and had discussions
with the Professor about the development of the Department.

