15

A high pressure catalystic flow reactor with its auxiliary units and other accessories has
been received from Germany. The installation of the reactor would give a fillip to the research
activities in the Department in the field of Technical Catalysis.
Mr. J. Rajaram, Lecturer, has gone through the viva voce on his thesis on 'The
Kinetics and Mechanism of Bromination of p-Bromophenol '.
Mr. K. Narayanan, Lecturer, has submitted his thesis entitled 'Study of the Dehydra..
tion of Alcohols on Oxide Catalysts '.
Dr. Ch. Kalidas and Dr. S. R. Ramadas have been selected for acquiring special
research experience in Germany under the auspices of D.A.A.D.

Department of Physics:
A four day symposium on Nuclear and Solid State Physics organised py the Bhaba
Atomic Research Centre was held in I.I.T., Madras from 26th February to Ist March. The
Department of Physics played host to the symposium. Six research papers were presented by
this Department.
The possibility of active collaboration in research with the space project at Thumba is
being explored.
Dr. C. Santaram and Dr. Y. V. G. S. Murti have joined as Lecturers.

Engineering Unit:
The construction of the tenth Hostel has been completed.
Block is over and it will be opened shortly.

Work on the Administrative

Work on the Aeronautics Laboratory and the extension to the Hydraulic Laboratory is
in progress.

Institute Gymkhana
S.

SUBRAMANIAM, GENERAL SECRETARY.

The year under review has been one of changes, starting off as we did with the new
President, Dr. N. Klein. He has been assOCIated with the Gymkhana ever since its inception,
and his appointment came as no surprise to those who knew his missionary zeal in upholding the
values of extracurricular activities in our Institute. To the students, more than his dynamism
was the breadth of vision, broadmindedness and appreciation of student problems that he
brought to his office. His readiness to delegate authority to the students, has reaped bountiful
returns to the Gymkhana. With his appointment there was much anticipation of an active
and meaningful year for the Gymkhana. However, other factors prevailed and as we wind
up this year there is a feeling that much more could have been achieved-not in terms of out
spree of silver collection but in matters of organization. It is my intention in this report to
focus attention on these aspects of the Gymkhana which have remained under-cover of the
glamour that prevails.

