16

Before the Gymkhana has to make an impression on everyone concerned, it is imperative
that this Institute recognises not only in principle but also in practice the importance of
extracurricular activities in any educational system. Undoubtedly some of the senior Professors
have given encouragement all the way down. There are others who have paid mere lip service
to the, "education not training", slogan while amongst the vast majority of the staff and students
there exists not merely indifference but a plethora of cynicism about Gymkhana activities.
The Gymkhana has added in no mean measure to the image of this Institute and quite
rightly so. While we do not advocate a negligence of studies, a little word of appreciation and
gestures of encouragement from the staff whom we confront in the classes daily could help
to build a more harmonious and congenial atmosphere in this campus.
In principle it is admirable that every hostel be represented in the Gymkhana committees
and undoubtedly this democratic set up has led to the mobilization of the students at Gymkhana
functions. However, Committees like the external affairs and publications call for personnel
with specific abilities and not merely popularity amongst the student populace. Moreover the
election of the General Secretaries of the Hostels has led to an artificial distinction between the
Hostels and Gymkhana-a gap that has been rather irksome. To obviate these difficulties we
recommend that:
(1) The editor be nominated by the outgoing editor who, in turn, charts out his own
editorial board.
(2) The President, in consultation with the Secretaries, nominates the Public Relations
personnel.
(3) The General Secretaries of the hostels be a part of the Gymkhana and the
General Secretary be a chosen Hostel representative to the Gymkhana.
The beginning of the academic year is a time of comparative leisure. However, through
the years, this leisure has gone waste due to the long drawn elections. It would be advisable
that the elections be conducted in the first two weeks and the formal inauguration takes place a
day after the General Secretary's election. The organization of this function and the pre-election
activities should be the responsibil~ty of the outgoing members.
The literary and cultural teams of this Institute kept up our reputation, a reputation
that has grown over the years. However, we can only ensure a continuance of such success if
the tradition is handed down. Happily for us, a lot of talents in the junior years has been
unearthed and we do hope that they shall be given encouragement in the coming years.
In the field of sports, however, barring a few games where our supremacy cannot be
doubted, we have had very few achievements to talk about. The indifferent attitude towards
games of a large section of the student body, the lack of interest of that department of the
Gymkhana which should normally cater to this activitv and the existing system of examinations
may well be attributed to this. There has been a genera] feeling this year that the Physical
Education Department be isolated from the Gymkhana. But such a break up would result in
the removal of a unit from the delicate framework that the Gymkhana is and could challenge
its very existence. Keeping the existing set-up as such, the Physical Training Instructors and
the students should move as one unit towards a common goal, with the Institute providing the
driving force by extending its fullest cooperation in suitably adjusting the academic curriculum.
Staff participation, if any, has so far been restricted only to the cultural side of the 9-ymkhana ;

