17

and for any improvement to he made in this field such participation should he extended in this
direction also. Given such facilities and encouragement, our Institute could soon be a force to
reckon with in the field of sports.,
Much more could be achieved if the students were not shuffled from hostel to hostel.
This shunting robs the hostels of a character and tradition and detracts from the enthusiasm
that could be generated during intramural competition. Moreover if the freshers are from the
beginning distributed among the hostels it would be possible to involve them in activities which
they now neglect.
The story of the success of the Gymkhana is a story of a few people. It is regrettable
that the student body has not identified itself with the Gymkhana to the extent it should. The
sparse attendance at the inauguration and the total indifference to sports is an infectious disease
~
which must be curbed before it spreads, if this Gymkhana has to exist.
What is even more regrettable, is that the I.I.T. audience which once was known to be
critical and understanding, has turned boorish. It has brought discredit to this Institute during
the Cultural Week, where many forgot that we were not just spectators, but more than thatthe hosts.
"The Gymkhana is unrivalled throughout the country in the amount of facilities and
equipment it offers. No doubt we do not have a closed auditorium, or a shuttle badminton
court; but these do not go to explain the malady in the student body. Often the existing
periodical system has been used to explain the inactivity. To some extent it is justified but,
more often than not it has been used to cover up for our general lethargy.
The spirit of participation cannot be infused, it must come from a sense of belonging.
The potentialities are enormous and the possibilities unlimited and the students must take it
upon themselves to exploit them.
It is impossible for the Gymkhana to work in isolation. It needs the encouragement of
the authorities and I must thank the Director, Dr. Ramachandran, Professor Sam path and
Professor Sethunathan who have not only been a constant source of encouragement, but have
never hesitated to give us a helping hand when we needed it.
Looking back, it has been a year of proud achievements and happy associations. The
Gymkhana has grown from strength to strength. As we leave the portals of this Institute we
are confident that those we leave behind will keep the lIT banner flying.

The Alumni Association
INDIAN INSTITUTE Oli' TECHNOLOGV, MAD~AS-36.

Annual Report for the year 1967-68.
It is a great pleasure for me to place before you this annual report of the' Alumni
Association for the period 1967-68. The membership of the Association has grown from 790
in July, 1967 to 1042 to-date. The membership from the first four batches of alumni was
satisfactory, but the alumni who will be receiving their degrees this year are a bit disappoint..
iii

