es
liT Madras, November 1967

Vol. VI, No.3

Research & Development
-A report from Subhuman Sciences Laboratories
Professor B. N. Sadist, Dr. (Miss) K. Ann
Garoo and Dr. Frank Einstein of the
S.S.L. have sent in a report on their
studies of mass' decontrol of human
effort (MOHE), based on data on the
probability distribution of activities in a
. typical IITian Class. They chose, for
their study, a batch of the X/Y, Q.
Tech. class attending a lecture on
moronography.
Thei . found that, contrary to the general
be1ief;'1~e one who is least interested in the
lecture:is most often-guess who ••• right 1!he lec~urer himself.
There are t,,,o other notable poim:o. in ~hrdr
records.
I. The number of students paying attention to what the lecturer was saying varied
with time throughout the period. They have
plotted the graph given below.
Some remarkable facts emerge from this.
During the first quarter of an hour, the
process of dishing out proxies occupied the
attention of a progressively decreasing section
of the class. Then, right in the middle of
the hour, the poor, tortured creature on the
dais lost the remanent of the demitasse of
temper he normally possessed; or rather,
made a gift of it to the class in general
though, obviously, nobody wanted it. A~
enterprising spirit at the rear end of the
class had kicked a tin can down the length
of the room; this explains the abovementioned flare-up and the consequent steep peak
in the graph.
The X/V lecturer in moronography has a
unique distinction. He possesses an unc:ompromisingly loud voice, and excels in
verbal pyrotechnics. But not even his
linguistic blitzkrieg could sustain any intelligent interest in the proceeding-at least,
not any above the level of the much-maligned
amreba.
Perhaps you've caught sight of the wagging
tail-end of the graph. And therein lies a
tale. What happened is this: some decimalized fraction of a moron, best known to the
authorities as a.aaa/ga decided to deviate from
the normal pattern of behaviour by asking the
lecturer some embarrassing question about the

1\
foO

imminent PERIODICAL. A considerable
percentage oJ the hitherto slumbering class
perked up and made preparations to grab the
pearls let faU by the Prophet, should he
perchance have made the tactical blunder of
making pre-periodical concessions.
2. The researchers have found that, in
general, despite the quantum of solace that a
meJ?lber of the pedagogical profession may
dertve from this object dependence on his
words displayed by the Citizenry of Tomorrow,
he experiences a bitter inward revulsion because he knows he is a beaten man, whatever
strategy he adopts. If he is tight-fisted with
.marks, he is marked down as an ineffectual
teacher; if he dispenses tht: Medful liber~
ally ••.• well, wouldn't it go against the grain?
It goes without saying that the major
sectio? of thct class had yielded to the
sopOriferous. air and was 'snatching forty
winks, unauthorised'. to use Dr. Frank
Einstein's own words. There were some
hardy specimens, however, who stayed awake
despite adverse environmental factors. Professor Sadist paid special attention to such
refractory elements in the composition of a
class. He finds that, of the seven who stayed
awake throughout the period, two were
?evouring spicy literature. two were involved
10 a heated debate on the absorbing topic of
who would get the prize for • maximum
giving and getting of proxies' this year,
and one was writing a letter to his girl friend.
That leaves us with two unspeakable creeps
who actually LISTENED to the lecture I
A pity; otherwise the graph would have
touched rock~bottom. Dr. K. Ann Garoo
~aintains that this cross-section is representative of all the classes conducted in the
Institute.
Sadist et al., are going ahead with their
research programme-and the next aspect of mass decontrol of human effort
to be studied by them is the cloud of
unexplained and perhaps inexplicable
facts and pseudo-facts that surrounds
the construction of our legendary
swimming-pool-to-be.
POO'ISIMBOOS UNOROO.

.

•

ft

,

"

\.

so

o

~

I

I

":10

1$
TIME

(mts)

I

/

I

25 P.
Prof. Heitland' Says

Goodbye To Us
The evening was cool; two of your reporters shook hands with Dr. lng. Heitland and
sat down On the lawn for an informal chat.
'After staying here for about four years'
the professor. said wistfully. • I feel that
almost belong here l' But then a scientist
must (dock I) keep abreast of recent developments in his field: Dr. Heitland goes back
to the Techniche Hochschule, Achen, where
he resumes his post as a member of the staff.

i

Prof. Heitilnd received his doctorate for
his work on 'Flame Stabilization in Jet
Engines. ' His habilitation thesis was on C Re~
combination Processes in rocket nozzles." He
has worked at M.l.T. and Caltech.

Dr. Heitland's work here on the Thermodynamics and Combustions laboratory is
completed. He confided that the equipment
here is conceivably better than at the Achen
Hochschule.
~omparing the system of education, Dr.
Heltland pointed out that while German
students can choose their syllabus and take the
examination when they are ready, such is not
the ~ase in India. Th~ is, perhaps, because
IndIan students entermg the university are
young compared to their counterparts in Germany•• Nevertheless, he had the following
suggestions to make:
(a) Ther~; should be team work among
the students in both study and project work •
•
(b). Collaboration must spring up between
mdu5tnes and IIT.

Prof. Heitland has travelled a lot in India.
Impressed by r:ndian craftsmanship, he revealed his interest 5.n Kashmiri carpets ' which are
so fine and yet so hilUg !'
Hobbies? Well, his first love is cornbusw
tion I He can strike a few keys at the piano
loves swimming, and prefers Western cIassi~
cal music to Indian music.

60

Dr. lng. Heitland left for Achen, Germany, on Saturday the 28th October.
Auf Wiedersellfm, Dr. Heitland I

I• .

-Campaslimes N6flJs.

