CAMPASTIMES

2

CLASSIFI ED
DIVERTISEMENTS
Automotive
For Sale, One Jawa Put-Put, light enough
to be pushed all the way to class. Free
demonstration. Contact J. Stracey, Ganga
Hostd.
Financial
Messrs. Lokanathan and Devakumar of
FHUT (Feed Hungry Undergrads. Trust)
regret to inform their patrons that the Interest
rates on short-term loans for free-period
visits to Knick Knack are hence forth raised
from one ~ cup of coffee to one-and-a-half
i cups of c,otfee per rupee.
Medica
Wanted, urgently. efficient pair of ear-pl~gs
to withstand self-inflicted. close range, high
amplitude audio bombardment.
M. SANYAL, Sick Room, Ganga.
P. S. Please include a spare pair.
VISITORS.

Wanted desperately, second-hand high
altitude b;eathing equipment.
RUDOLPH LOBO (pant 1 pant 1).

Decorative
Yes you too can get an' S" in tutorials and
Lab. ~ork: Decorations in all shades under,taken. Visit Gopi's Beauty Parlour.
Prop: V. Gopinath. Grams: 'Van-Gugh '.
Situations vacant
, Applications invited for the post of :
I. Deputy Librarian.
2. Junior Librarian.
3. Assistant Librarian.
4. Apprentice Librarian.
S. Spare Librarians.
6. Attenders (25, to man all the entrances and keep the undergraduates at bay.
Candidates must bring their own defence
equipment).
B.Teehs. witi be prefered for post (6).
-The Head Librarian, lIT.
Pets
Buying a puppy .01' a cat? Send for out"
lists. Large selection of aU popular local
breeds. Full (de)tails from
MESS STAFF.

Jomullo Hostel.
Removal Service
I am a specialist in door~to-door removals.
Apply to
P~CR~)

Godavari Hostel.
Education
Learn while you sleep. Details of method,
equipment, and others from
N. P. KANNAN.

Secretary ,
Sleep Learning Society.
Safari
Want excitement? Join the one--hour minitrek expedition across lIT lake. Write to or
meet in person
Secretary,
Outdoor Club.

Wanted
A bucket full of bolts to feed our bucketof-bolts. Contact one of us.
-BATTY, KAMMY, Gus, RAM, C. K.

Wanted-

"DIVERTS"
FOR

THIS

RAG

Inhuman Bondage
AU the characters and establishments in
this story are purely fictional. Any resem~
blances, real or imagined, to living persons
and existing
institutions
are merely
coincidental. The author offers his earnest
apologies to any person who is likely to take
objection to any part of the manuscript.
P. UNOROO.
I

[November, 1967
swelling waves that soon submerge your
consciousness. You catch yourself nodding
once. • • • twice ••• and form an unshakable
determinatio~ not to pop off ••. and in doing
so you sink irtto the awsome somnolent depths.
These two factors, combined, proved too
powerful for me; indeed the mighty have
overcome eVen a confirmed insomniac.

•

II
Arid then•••
The Mad Scientist heard about the above
It was all up with me. The satyr's grin
incident. He is chock futI of theories: he
had highlights of sheer evil. With a mocking,
added one more to his stupendous stockpile
derisive yell he raised the fiaming sword and
with the data furnished by my case.
••. and •••
Oh, you haven't met the Mad Scientist?
, Pootsimboos ! !' The ferocious snarl
What, you don't even know who he is t Tut.
startled me into wakefulness. 'This is the
tut I Such ignorance. • •• Well, never mind;
third time I've caught you sleeping in my
you'll probably know too much about him by
the time I've finished.
class. Tell me, what should I do with you? •
A smouldering gaze ,laced through my
•FRANKEINSTE!N.' That's what the guys
bemused consciousness.
' The satyr I '
around "this joint call him. He has earned
thought I. Not quite knowing what exactly
the name several times over-in more ways
was happening 1 drooled out an indeterminate,
than one, oh, many more.
, Let me go.' A psychologically conditioned
Well, that particular evening he decided
reaction, if you ask me. After all, the satyr
to grace my room with his august presence.
had been about to commence on the abominHe dropped in: metaphorically and literally.
able task of eviscerating me (shudder) in a
1 am, by nature, polite and considerate.
way anyone ,,'ould hate. • .• So I can hardly
So '1 forbore from employing my pedai
be blamed for wanting the thing to let me go.
extremeties to erase him from the landscape.
My mistake lay in answering the lecturer as I
Another, more uninhibited, might have acted
would have answered the satyr.
otherwise.
• Let you go, eh?' Lecturer X took an
With good reason. FrankEinstein is no
unseemly pleasure in uttering these words.
normal monster. HE GABS I Miles and
He seemed to be enjoying the situation to the
miles; all about his • theories'. No man can
full. f Yes, I think that would be a very
know peace with FrankEinstein within earshot.
In other respects he is tolerable-did I
good idea. Henceforth you are free from the
responsibility of being even physically present
hear a vehement' No I r 1 • Come, ladies and
in my class. All my classes !' lie smacked
gentlemen, let us be charitable. I admit
his lips as he said the last few words.
that he is a trifle too thin and bony and
generally lOne-dimensional' for conventional
• The door, t said the self-fancied humorist,
tastes, but one must aCCept the fact that this
, is over there! With that, he turned to the
is not his fault. ,Some of my friends speculate
board aDd started scribbling some hairy
as to what sort of reinforcement his neck
formula.
must have in order to be able to bear his
Slowly, my mind began to come out of its
head, and, as to when his somewhat oversized
eclipse and one by one the happenings of the
cranium is going to come apart at its
last few moments began to register thetn~
moorings-but. well, all that is beside the
selves and their full import dawned On me.
point. As I was saying, good 01' Frank is
My position was succinctly summed up by
okay bar his besetting sin.
the phrase 'booted out of class for indulging
He had a f~:nny look in his eyes which
in a post~prandial snooze.'
My tormentor turned back to the class.
should have warned me that he had something up his sleeve and that I was going to
'Oh, you're still here. I thought I had excused
you from our company. PLEASE let us
experience rough weather. • Poots,' said this
carryon with our work.' He appeared to be
gem of creation, • I heard that Mr. -~.
shooed you out of class for snatching fortyvery earnest about it.
With a sigh and a sheepish grin, I shambled
winks, unauthorised. Tell me, does this
out of class. r consoled myself with the
happen often ?'
thought that I had got attendance for being
He looked so eager for infonnation that I
didn't have the heart to say everything that
present through half a lecture. Perhaps he
would have forgotten aU about it the next time
fought for expression in my mind. I decided
he saw me in class .•••
to humour him for a while.
...
,.,
f Yeah.
It sure does. 1 sleep a sight
too much and too often for my liking. I
It was all very unfair. I mean, if you
wonder how some of the freaks around here
understood all the facts leading up to the
Can make do with a couple of hours of sleep
events just recounted, perhaps you will change
per diem.'
,
your opinion about my proneness to drop
• Adjustment,.ol'boy, adjustment to environoff for a doze at odd times.
With
a little bit of trying,
mental
factors.
Consider. first. the fact that a heavy meal
even sleepy heads .like you should be able to
is likely to render you as sleepy as Rip Van
reduce their periods of sleep~ and that, per
Winkle." You see, 1 had been starving myself
se means that abnormal behavioural patterns
for a few days-the grub in the mess simply
can be impressed by voluntary condi.tioning.
wasn't edible. Then one day they got the
You know, I hav~ a theory about that ... '
brilliant idea of letting us have something We
'Yes, yes 1 I know' I cut ih, hastily.
could sink our teeth into. Spurred on by a
There was an awkward pause in which he
week-long hunger, 1 tucked into the stuff
probably wondered how in tarnation I had
right toyalIy, indifferent though it (the grub)
got the dope on his pet theories. • But what
might have been by normal standards. Any
cheeses me up,' I continued, is that I keep
physiologist will tell you that a heavy meal
forgetting all the details of my juciest dreams.
after a period of zero caloric intake is liable to
Suddenly, I wake up wjth the conviction that
result in an attack of profoun~ drowsiness.
I've been having a sugar an' honey dream
And so it was with Pootismboos Unohoo.
and ask myself why in Shivering Shaogrila I
As if that weren't enough, along comes
have to get up. I sigh for the sunshine and
myoId pal, the lecturer, and tempts me to
smiles of my vague dream-world and turn
commit this grievous sin. 1 have a theory
around to face the wan dead realities of everythat Lecturer X has a very remarkable power
day life. f I stopped short, realizing that 1
-he has a hypnotic voice. Otherwise how
was getting poetic. God knows what there
could he put you to sleep so quickly and
is about Frank to inspire one with poetry.
effectively and effortlessly? You stride into
< Funny you should say that,' he observed
class possessed by a determination to assimilate
with an owlisll glare around my room. ' As a
as much of the lecture as your poor wits can
matter of fact I am developing a theory 011
take in, imagining that you can save yourself
the retention of dreams in a person's memory.'
some mugging that way, and before you can
say • hot sheep' you find yourself floundering
(Contd. O1t p. 6, cal. 2)
in an ocean of drowsiness, fighting back the

At Flrst • ••

..

