CAMPASTIMES

Physics Lab. Record
14-8-67.

'Expt. No. 3.
Mirror: Galvanom.eter

Aim: (a) To hook from the laboratory
before z p.m.
(b) To r,ush to Bros cinema.
App~ratus: A senior's record, plus all the
junk that is on the table.

Theory: (a) When the circuit is open for a
millisecond, there is a kick in the galvanometer. 8imilfI'ly, when the seniors' record is
opened for five milliseconds, there is a kick
in your pen and readings from the senior's
record surge into your record.
(6) 1.a.b.+l.i.f.t=g.a.t.e
g.a.t.e+ lOP =E.r.o.s
Where E.r.o.s=Adyar+a small
distance .o.s.

All dimensions in Rationalised M. K. S.
(Madras Knavery Society) system.

Procedure: First, lounge around the lab.
for sometime. Then connect all the wit'es to
make the apparatus look jazzy. Avoid shocks
and explosions. Now look around. After
making sure that all magnetic materials and
tutors are far ramoved from the' apparatus,
carefully transfer a few lines from one record
to another. If the lecturer comes too near,
slip into the next room and suck a piece of
ice from a calorimeter. If you feel like it,
get into a small scrap with someone. Meanwhile, pick the friend who is going to cough
up for you at the cinema. Now come back
and resume cogging. Check for the lecturer
after 5. 10,15.20 m,inutes.
Draw a line between the lecturer on one
axis and yourself on the other. The line will
intersect only at the lab. Now apply formula
(6).

Precautions: (i) The, seniors'
record
should contain only • A' or • S' grades.
(il) Don't quit the lab. too early. Else
the .1ectur~rs ~ill make you repeat the expenment SIX tunes or more.
Result: Met the lecturer at the cinema (I)
-VBNKY.

KAKB

Inhuman Bondage-(Contd./rom p. 2)
I began to regret my expansive mention of
dreams. • Do you know,' he continued with
an air of imparting a secret, 'that some
steroids can influence the retaining capacity
in such cases? Take 17 X-ethinyloestradiol,
for example,' the sap actually pronounced
the word (or words). • Well, this drug has
a potency aU beyond my expectations. But
I still think that pregnenolone is the most
effective. These pills,' he said, producing a
fistful from some recess in the voluminous
folds ,of his attire, 'have a pregnenolone
content of only .02.5 milligrammes each,
yet even ONE is capable of giving you an
ink print memory as regards dreams.' His
eyes grew sly. < Want to see if they work? '
In spite of myself, I had become morbidly
interested in his chatter. 'Where did you
get these pills r '
, From the Chemist's. Why? '
I took a couple of them in the palm of my
hand and stared at them dubiously. • What
are they used for, any way? '
• Ahem .• ah .. do you really want to know?'
'I'd be a darn sight happier if I knew.'
• Actuady. pregnenolone is a new drug,
recently put on the market. It is supposed
to accelerate perystaltic contraction during the
ante-parturitional p~riod of gestation.'
That much Greek and about as clearas mud
to me. AU the same I nodded and looked
wise in order to avoid another dose of
abracadabra from Frank. I place the pills
in some corner of my room and completely
forgot about them.
Soon, I was desperately casting about for a
strategem to kick the bHghter out of my
room. The creep had launched out in a
description of Professor Handlebaum's latest
theories. He cavorted around the room
babbling about superdense Pluto and Cronos
and Sol-~. He grew positively ecstati<: as he
burbled about • alien creatures with brains
of microcrystalline integrated circuits and
molten metal in their vascular systems. • • •
I was a distraught person when I finally
escaped· from his soul-shattering brand of
third degree.
As might have been expected. 1 was left
with a mighty big headache. You know the
type-throb, throb, throb, twinge, throb,
throb, etc. the whole works. I looked around
for some analgesic tablets-aspirin or some·
thing. I chanced upon a couple of them in
one odd Corner. There was nothing startling
in their appearance. so I swallowed them and
chased them down with a swig of water.
Little did I realize. • • •

III
FOLKS!

COME UP WITH
CARTOO'NS

&

WRITE UPS

FOR

The December Issue
-CamptutiWl8s

Solutions to Quick Crossword

ACROSS
Skate 3. Slips 6. RA 7. Ore 8. Slam
Dolt II. Design 13. Radius IS. Cone
16. Noir 17. Fat 18. Eg 20. Early
1.

10.

:~u.Amend.

DOWN
Sap 2. Toasq. Ice 5. Strange 7. Omen
'9' AD 10. Darrage 12. Hunt 14. So IS·
Cream 1'7. Fir 19. Sad
I.

Ana so write finis • • •
. The ground was trembling violently and a
lurid reddish glare lit up the sky. Buildings
were being slowly twisted Out of ,shape. A
booming, crashing sound signalled the disintegration of a large, seemingly solid
structure to the left. A cascade of ston,es
and dust nearly buried me. One poor fellow,
pinned down by a large block of masonry
nearby, was wailing out for help in a curiously
flat monotone, A water-pipe burst and sent
a shower of cool water through the shimmer·
ing air. Above the general chaotic roar, a
new powerful droning note swelled up rapidly
to a screaming crescendo.
I looked up. A brilliant white light blotted
out anything else that I could have seen'. I
closed my blinded eyes • • • hardly felt the
wave of hot gas that swept over the
ground. • • • 8p pleasant to float inert into
the stygian darknes. • • •
'Carbon, hydrogen, Oxygen. A proteinbased metabolism. Biochemical neural logic.
This specimen is not very badly damaged.
Shall we examine it 1 '
I cantt say bow I managed to understand
the words-or perhaps they were just ideas.
Nevertheless, I did understand. Obviously.

[November, 1967
somebody or something was communicating
with somebody else.
I opened my eyes.
For a few moments, what I saw didn~t
register., There were three weird objects in
front of me. Chunks of gleaming metal
interlaced by filamentous networks of coppercoloured wire-that's how they appeared to
me. They radiated heat like a set of blast
furnaces. Behind, them, and all around, were
banks upon banks of metallic panels coloured
an'indeterminate steel grey.
I had stopped thinking-I merely observed.
• Shall I establish contact?' again, I under~
stood, though, certainly. no words were
spoken.
',Go ahead.'
Then I realized that there was a transparent
partition between me and the objects. I
caught a highlight reflected from the glaSslike screen when one of the aggregations of
metallic chunks moved slightly.
'No need to trouble. It responds to our
own frequency.'
f
• Remarkable! We'll clock aU the data We
can about it. Switch on the data-logger.
I felt obsolutely nothing.
• Shall I transmit directly to it on an intelligence-to-intelligenr.e basis ?'
'Okay.'
• You know,' somebody was saying in a
conversational tone of voice,' we didn't mean
to wreck. your part of planet Sol III. We
didn't realize that a low-temperature civilization, could have developed and survived. It
was a complete stock to us, to discover that
we had caused such widespread destruction
amongst another intelligent race. The power
unit on our high.speed landing craft was
responsible. We regret the incident very
much.'
'Who are you l' I found 'no difficulty in
thinking these words out aloud.
, We are inhabitants of the planet you would
call Sirius IV. Right now we are colonising
all the habitable worlds in our part of the
Galaxy. Sol or ReHos, your star, is on the
periphery of our region. Sol r is the only
planet suitable for us in this system.'
Some lurking fragment of memory urged
me to ask, • you do~'t, by any chance, have
brains with microcrystalline integrated circuits
and molten metal in your vascular $ys~
tems i'
I Of course. we do.'
I Do
you know anything about sol,6 or
Cronos ?'
• 801,6? Ah, yes. It is the planet. you
call Pluto. It was a star originally-the
dominant member of th.e sol 0(-8 system..
It blew up and now only a fragment of its
core is left at its original location. It is
superdense, you know; with a specific gravity
of about 50. All your planets are left overs
of the outer mantle of Sol·tr. Cronos '?
That was 801-0('s fifth planet. If disintegrated and parts of its core now form the
asteroids."
I couldn't rest. fWhy did Cronos dis~
integrate~' 'For the', same reason that your
own planet is doomed to be destroyed in a
short while. It's people played with too
many nasty weapons.'
Then the creature told me that they were
taking me to Sirius IV. They have an
interstellar zoological i museum there ..•
Earth, they tell me will disappear in 3
few days.
I know it's all a dream-but can anyone
tell me hoW stop it i Or at least how to
forget it ~ Every night I continue dreaming
where the previovs night dream left off.
You don't believe me? Just go and ask
FrankEinstein for some of his pregnenolone
pills.
And for Heaven's sake think of something
nice before you go to sleep each night.
Yours in dire distress,
POOTSIMBOOS UNOHOO.

