DATE: 7.3.81

ISSUE NO.6
EDITORIAL:

MANDAK RAG has won the right of freedom of expression. Objection
was taken by the mess workers to what was published last week.
Durin~ the meeting held to settle the issue, no mess worker turned
up, but they were amply represented by our warden Dr. P. Achuthan.
The following were the aecisions taken:
1, The article would not be removed but would be explained to the
mess workers. This would solve the problem, which was considered
to be a misunderstanding.
2. The 2ag would not be subjected to perusal by the Warden before
publication.
3. The Rag would be typed only on Saturday afternoons and only in
the presence of the office manager. We are not allowed to type
alone in the office in future due to the presence of important
files there.
4. The Rag would be careful not to hurt anyone's feelings.
On Tuesday, two gentlemen came to Mandak, screaming for blood.
Their brother was to have an open heart operation on Weanesday and
more than one litre of A+ blood was urgently required. They had
contacted the lIT Hospital from which they had obtained a few names
of students with A+ blood. Two of the names were Subramshu and
B. Venkatramana (Laddoo). On being appreached, they readily consented
to donate blood. They were taken by car to a hospital near Perambur
where they donated 300ml of blood each. According to Subramshu,
'It took just about five minutes. It didn't have much effect on me
except for slight giddiness and fatigue for a day. Anyway, I'd
like to know the result of the operation. t
Kudos to Subramshu and Laddoo for their generosity.
Yesterday there was yet another incident in the mess. The~
potato curry was over at 7:35 PM. There was no curry at any of the
tables and two of the servers said that it was over. Some students
were denied potato curry. Later, I foumd a bucket, more than half
full with potato curry in the kitchen. I immediately called the
General Secretary of the hostel and showed it to him. Thercurry
was seen by LED, Dharmaraj, Lundo, and me. We went to talk to the
Mess Supervisor. There the mess workers were eating supper,c)with
plenty of the potato curry in their plates. By the time we returned
to the kitchen, the bucket had been removed.
This a relevant matter to be considered by the inmates and
office bearers.

******
LIMERICK CONTEST

Prize Rs.lO/=

Complete the following limericks (totally 5 lines).
1. There was a hostel called Mandak,

.. ... ..

2.

While passing by Sarayu one day,
•••••••

RULES: 1. Each inmate may give in two entries (both on the same
topic if he likes) to room no.152 on or before Friday
the 13th March.
2. The entries will be judjed by the Editorial Board,
whose decision will be final. A prize of Rs.lO will be
awarded to the best limerick on Saturday evening in
the mess. The winning entry and other selected entries
will be published next weem.
HOW CAN THIS BE?
-- Hari
1. Sam Patch always goes to the tallest trees, takes his shoes off,
and jumps over them. How can this be?
2. Three people are under a small umbrella but none of them gets wet.
How can this be?
3. Two men, their wives and sons are related to each other as follows.
The men are the wives'husbands and their fathers. The men are
the sons' grandfathers and fathers, and the wives are the sisters

