and grandmothers of the sons. The sons are uncles of each other.
How can this be?
4. A farmer, his daughter, a minister and his wif~ went to a forest.
They found an eagle's nest and four eggs in it. Each of them took
one egg and still there w~s one egg left over. How can this be?
5. A doctor in Delhi had a brother in Bombay who was a lawyer.
But the lawyer in Bombay had no brother in Delhi. How can this be?
6. In the north they say, there are deadly mosquitoes, a good
amount of which weigh a pound and they also sit on logs and bark
when peeple go by. How can this be?
Keep reading to find out the answers to these riddles.

******
BRAVO MANDAK!
-- Stylo 3'1
Up at 7 were the footballers with enthu,
Including the talented goalie, Subramshu.
To face the veterans from Narmada-B,
They had toiled hara for a week, maybe.
The game revealed to Mandak, talent apart,
The brute for(e the veterans could impart.
Muscle power they used to send us reeling,
Not before our defence gave them a strict dealing.
The show, of cours9, our boys stole
With Subramshu's karate at the goal.
Dipi's guts and our forwards' dare,
Were to all an unqualified nightmare.
With the final whistle our heroes fell.
What a fall that was, my brother.
A fall, that lid forever remember.
On Sunday, the first of this month, Mandak put up a commendable
fight in the first round of the FSA Football Tournament before
g01ng down 1-3 to Narmada-B. Our team was represented by Sheshadri,
Shajan, Subramshu, Natrain, M.P. Srikanth, Dipi, Vasan and Ramaswami.

******

WHY IS IT SO?
-- Tautomer
Why is it that •••
••• all the three bogs are occupied when you rush to them
early in the morning?
••• everyonet' air is low when you are late for class?
••• everyone asks you the result of the match after you've
lost it?
••• the TV conks out just before a good programme?
••• the volleyball court fills up just"before you step into it?
••• someone or the other drops in for a chat just after
you've sat down to mug?
••• the library book is a week overdue when you realise you
have to return it?
••• the SAC lacks the item you are badly in need of?
••• the water in the shower stops just after you have soaped
yourself thoroughly? (and at embarassing times too?)
••• your friends always turn up when you are about to sip a
cool drink bottle?
••• no one believes you when you are on the right side of an
arguement?
••• your wing does extremely well in a competition when you
are not participating?

******
What goes 99-thump, 99-thump, ••••• ?
Ans: A centiped with one wooden leg.

**

Why did Pink Panther walk round and round the tree?
Ans: He believed that one good turn deserves another.

**

A ship carrying blue paint collieed with a ship carrying
red paint. Everyone was marooned.

**

