CAMPASTIMES

2

Bhatia Writes.
-This semester IS gomg to be very busy as
far as the G}mkhana actiVIties are concerned
The Instltute was closed whcn the national
CriSIS took place. thelefore our efforts on reopening were to collect some substantial sum
and give It to the NatIOnal Defence Fund and
the Jawans Welfare Fund. The Carmval
proceeds as well as those of the specml Films
shown m OAT are gomg towards that
cause.
The film club IS runmng exceptIOnally well.
To my knowledge tlus year IS the best year of
the Film club. though earher thiS ye'lr there
wa~ a lot of unrest at the quality of the films
Dr. Swamy and Raja are lookmg after the
film club really weir' f3
The transport committee has not yet
met for the second time. The buses have
been placed under the charge of Mr Ebert
as there were a lot of complamt .. pertauung
to the mamtenancc operational aspect. An
attempt to run the bu.ses at the old SChedule
IS bemg made as alsG to get the 5 p. ticket
back. In my talks With bus drivers and
conductors they say that their reluctance to
do their best IS due to the very meagre overtime given to them.
It wlil be heartening to note that the
break asked for by the students has been
sanctioned and IS effective from thiS semester.
New plastiC Identity cards will be Issued
very soon to the students The central photographIC sectlon IS gettmg ready to photograph all the students If necessary, for the
said purpose.
The director has set up a committee to
evolve a system of staff evaluatIon. ThiS
committee (.ompnsmg three professors IS to
use the staff-evaluation system m vogue 10
Wlsconsm Umt and some other Amencan
Umversltles as guldehnes. We are awaltmg
the outcome of thiS committee. The need
for thiS evaluatIOn cannot be over stressed.
In any progressive set-up the need for feedback from students and correctIOn of faults
IS an Integral part
Here somehow over the
years most staff members and their Ideas have
become stagnant. They do not see them·
selves In the role of a gUide but expect
some sort of a man Fnday behaViour from
the students. ThiS IS ndlculous, because In
an educatIOnal Instltutlon as thiS. matunty
and some amount of Wisdom has to be
accredited to the students It IS disgusting
to watch helplessly, the don't hke treatment
meted out to students by some of the staff
members. The greatest need of the hour IS,
I am convlflced, mutual respect. For the

Our Regular Features
e~ilorial

6

From J(ere al10 jhere

1

of C:hings

1

l

pefe s Cor'ler

8

Over .II Cup of .fIye .fIye
7ea
9

Sporfjolio

II

S'luare })ance

12

[Spring 1972
most other engmeenng students from elsewhere The an~lVer IS slmplt An IITlan
through the system and the stay 10 the campus
has greater amount of self-confidence and IS
capable of remembering more than student~
elsewhere.

• • • • •

faculty members who have had the Ia.st word
10 gladel> for the students thl~ IS a dJfIi<;ult
PlOposlt\on But If thIS Institute IS to aVOid
the path of decay other Collegls elsewhere 10 ...
the countlY have gonc then thiS ~tep I~ ntcessary Mutual I e~pect cannot be got by
passlllg order~ or by ~trlkcs, but must be
cultivated The students cannot and I am
sure have not treattd the faculty dlsrL~plct­
fully for the Simple fLason that they • lannot
afford' to. In the fundamentally gradel>
onented system such a~ our~ the leLturer
ahva}" has the upper hand. Even If IlL has
m Ide mistakes In corn.ct11lg a few papers,
mtcntlOnally or otherWise, there IS no machlnel y fOi rectificatIOn of thl::' lault ThiS IS
a great handicap tor the students and a one
up fOI the ~t.llf. The wronger! student can
take up the matter wil hills Htad of Department or Deputy Du cLtor who IS the academiC
head but precIOus httlc I::. done apart from
sa) mg that they would look mto the matter
lthe matter mostly ends there leavmg the
student more lru~trated) Thl~ IS ,ery true of
the Electrical Lngmeermg Department whel e
though the top student~ enter the Department.
the number 1f supplementarles and failures
here h.we become almost a legend Some ot
the bnghtest boys have lo~t a year or so.
In my view a greater number of supplementanes and failures lepresents an madequacy m
teachlllg methods and reflects on the staff
members. Through the entrance exam only
the very best are taken m If they tall It IS
more a fault of the faculty member than the
students themselves. The quality of the staff
member, as the students thmk. will be reflected through thiS staff evaluatIOn and I hope
that those staff members who are under the
11Iu~lOn that th~y come to class to dictate
notes and then assess students are made
aware that thelC bus mess IS to teach lfl such
a way as to bnng out the best m a student
and to help him develop mtellectual abdlttes.
What happens though I~ sadly and pitifully
dltkrent The great amount of absenteeism
m the classes should be an eye opener to those
who have not looked at thiS aspect of the
staff-student problem More stress should
be laid so that the student develops hiS fundamentals. The cr.lmmmg for periodicals helps
10 remembenng and reprodUCing the fOTmulre.
for a good engmeer thiS IS msufficlent.
An argument may be Issued that If thts
system IS not so good. how come IlT
students are dOing very well and better than

"

The credit for thiS goes to the system
of educatIOn more than to the faculty It IS my
firm conVictIon (after 41 years of stay here)
that m some of the subjects the student can
do as well m penodlcd\S exaTl's. etc.. by
studymg the notes dictated wuhout attendmg
a smgle class. The lIT student bemg better
IS no cause for euphona amongst tho~e III
change of runnmg thiS place Slllce the 111'
student can be. properly gUided. far
SUplrlor to other students elsewhere Small
wondLr that very ftw ~tudents ml"s the
academIC Side of their five ye" r stay m thiS
campus.
Most fifth year students are now counting
the number of days left With mixed fetlmgs
of mild CUriOSity and rehef The CUIlOSlty
of what hes ahead, as for qUite a few It
w!11 be the end of education and for ever)one hiS first degree Rehef at gettmg
out of thiS gnnd-mlll The nostalgia or
five year stay 111 thiS beautiful campu~
must neces!oarlly be there.
The Alurnm
placement section, unlike m othtr mstJtutlOn~
hke
Ahmedabad
IS most meffecttve.
ThiS IS what I have been told by an
ex-lll'lan whom I met recentl). In most
Colleges the alumm does ~ome sales talk on
behalt of the graduates to the Industry Top
protessors take mterest III mdlvldual students.
placement In their meetings With mdustnahsts
etc. No such effort s.:ems to be undertaken
here except that of arrangmg a few mter~
views The polices of the mountain commg
to Mohammed IS followed rather than otherWIse. Nowadays the unemployment among
engmeermg students IS rising at an alarmmg
rate so the alumfll section must be on ItS toes
domg Its best Sad to say that ItS far from
bemg so ThiS IS the reason why students from
other lIT's get preference and better Jobs than
Madras people. The Alumm should go to the
mdustry and find places for students who are
passmg out.
The other day I had occas!on to go to the
hospital to fetch medlcme from the dispensary,
the preSCrIptIOn bemg wnlten out by doctor
on duty It was around ten 10 the mght and
the nurSe did not know where that medlcme
was. I Just wondered-If a medlcme WdS
urgently needed for an emergency what
good would our dispensary With stock
(medical) be Without a compounder m the
mghtl
VINOD BHATLA.

