[S pring 1972

CAMPASTIMES

4

Thesis on Periodical
Tests ...... .
It seems IITl3ns were born for penodlcals
or vice-versa. Having spent sometime In
lIT, one develops a peculiar attitude towards
them. Some outsiders now firmly believe
that the fame which lIT M has won In the
press recently IS the result of these penodlcals. ThiS Imtlated some of the research
scholars here to go sull deep In the Theory of
Perwdu:als and make some more developments.
They preferred working out mathematics of
It so that things could be a.gued out nicely.
Here's a brief review of what they dId • The vanous problems posed before estabhshmg .. Theory of Penodlcals" were as to
how many perIodicals should be conducted In a
semester; what should be thel' duratIon; on
what days should these be conducted and
so on?'
The Fundamental Lemma '-' Each penodlcal test shall have a duratIOn of 50 mmutes.'
The theorems which follow w!ll assume thiS
Lemma to be true, Without lilly proof.
CalculatuJ1t of number of Penodlcals, number
of subjects betng ullkllown.-FoIlowmg theorem
wIll be Important to diSCUSS here.
Theorem :-' Total number of perIodicals m
a semester cannot exceed certam fimte value'.
Proof :-Assume that Nt 1 represent number
of perIodicals conducted till t1
N~tlll~

Then/).N=N~-Ntl

l:!>t, and t\, ~ finite.
Imposmg Fundamental Lemma. We see
that If (t2 - t 1) = duration of semester and
perIodicals are conducted one after another,
With one break-2f hours dally, even then
their numbers bound to be fimte.
This number N mu. can be eastly seen to
be:N..-.=30X4X 24X60/so=34S6
assuming on an average 30 days In a month
and 4 months In a semester.
Thus N:}-Nmu . and hence the proof.
Remarks .-The case discussed above is
ideal. In fact It IS not possible to conduct so
many periodicals and IITlallS need not be
afraid of It. The purpose of the above theorem
was to demonstrate the maxlIDum hmlt to
wruch N could tend under perfectly Ideal
conditions.
This IS also supported by an lIDportant
onciuslon drawn from expenence t1Iat .
'There can be no teaching or learmng
without penodIcals. Time gap between two
successive periodicals IS Important.'
, TheoTem, 2 . -Total number of perIodicals IS always dIVIsible by the number 3.'
ThiS theorem IS derived from the experience.
An empirical formula has been developed
to get the number of penodicals (N)
N=3 n - 6 2 , - 6 1
Where n-Number of weeks per semester.
It is assumed that not more than three penodlcals shall be conducted m any week. That
is how a factor of 3 n comeS in the expression.
6 2 -ThiS factor explaInS reduction due
to the fact that there are no perIOdicals for some time at the begInning of the semester.
e1 :-Thls factor explainS reduction as
there are no periodicals durmg
final examinatIOn.
ThiS explams reduction for after
N/3 periodIcals have been conducted, there IS always certam gap
p :-Thls factor, It IS dIfficult to explam
as It depends upon clrcum~tances
which lead to 'Re-penodlcals '.
A slight tlunklng would reveal
that qhould have a negative value
ID the expresSIOn as It tends to
mCrease N
ThiS is only a bnef review. Fairly complrcated expreSSions for 71, 6 2 , el , t. P etc.
have been dtveloped. These are beyond the
However those who are
scope of thIS thlSIS
interested may work them out from the baSIC
relatIOns given below (t) e z = f(z, I, k)
where
z
Date on which the
semester starts

-+-p·

1: Represents hohdays on
days scheduled for
penodlcal
k: Date of commencement
of penodlcals
IS normally not known An Iterative procedure IS suggested for thIS I.e, by tnal
assume values for k.. I could be found from
• Instltute Calendar' keepmg m view holidays
on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
(II) 'I'=F (c,l)
where c IS a constant, found experimentally
I as defined earher.
Note - ' If periodicals arc conducted, these wtll
be conducted only on these days and on no othe.
day'

(m) El =Fo (If l' Ifz, 1)
where If 1
Date on which final examination starts
If2 .
Date on which final examination ends
These are also available from 'Institute
Calendar '.
I as defined earher.
(if}) P=JL ¢ (y)
Normally p eXIst:. when 'y' IS very high
which represents degree of toughness of
perIOdIcals.
1"=0, when Y IS low or medIum
1"= It when Y IS high.
As a check one must always remember that·(l) 6 2 , e1, o/,p all should be mtegers; may be
zero also.
tit) Fmally N must be diVISible by three.
(m) Also N must be < N max. as calculated
prevlOusl).
"Even before thIS t1Iesls was publIShed, some
people complained that IITlans comphcate
thmgs rather than sunpltfymg them. It IS for
these fellows that a very Simple method has
been developed to get number of penodlcals
conducted. ThiS method IS falfly accurate.
Procedure IS given below in steps : Step I· Between 9.00 pm. to 10.00 p.m. go
to the sub-statIOns supplying electncal
power to all hostels, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fndays.
Step 2 -SWitch off supply for two minutes
and walt for the response.
Step 3 .-If you hear any of the followmg:(I) No periodIcal!
(n) PerIodical postponed!
(IiI) EEAH.
No more mugging! .
. •. an so on, so forth Make a count
of one I.e.
Initially n=o
Step 4 :-Repeat thiS process t1l1 you stop
gettmg such response.
Step 5 ·-Look for the final valve m the box

I

X

+I

I.

ThIS IS same as N/3

ThIS method can be eaSily computerised
and have some advantages other than bemg
so Simple
HS+ SA++A+A A-A= B++B+ B B-B=F

F
F

o

+:-

l

II

I

'V

BIG WHEELS KEEP ON

TURNING
Nothmg one can do can stop the awesome
march of progress. You may do what
you Irke, but the big wheels turn mexorably,
and keep on turmng First, there came the
speedbreakers. Some poor bloke was unfortunate enough to ram one of them at a high rate
of mph, thereby leavmg blhmd him vanous
e"sentJal component<; of hiS mobtke. ThiS IS
where the story actuJlly begms The cogs
began to turn. StrIpes, It was whispered,
were the answer
Let there be stflpes', they
said, and there were stripes. A pleasmg black
and white combmatlOn to match any, but any,
decor But that was not enough The speedbreakers were stlll practically InvlS)ble and
so the red Irghts went up. That was not the
perfect solution either ~elther lights nor signboards worked. Some sap or the other was
mcessantly runmng mto a speedbreaker.
'Watch that sharp night Lander near Vanavam', the word went round, as It no doubt
has at Le Mans on several occaSlOn~, 'It'S a
mean one! .
The "uspen'e was unbearable ' What',
one wondered, Wide-eyed, 'would they do
next?' ThIS was the time of the Great
DepreSSIOn ID my Periodical grades. I Simply
could not concentrate The speed breaker
was a more Vital Issue than the next day's
periodIcal. Haggard and unshaven apparitIOns were frequently noticed near the BSB,
muttenng. ' There must be a way" FmaIly,
when I was close to breaking pomt, somebody
came up With the Idea of the )ear. And as
a consequence, the black and white stnpes
were rotated by r/z. Now there IS progress
for you. While people outSide the campus are
merely talkmg about '<;clentdic endeavour'
and vanous other polysyllabhc Ideals, we are
qUietly gettmg things done.
Somebody IS bound to nohce that the
latest development cau::.es vertigo as one
passes over the speed breaker even from the
height of four feet. I must say that I find
the general attltude towards the speed breaker
a tnfle dlsappomtmg. There IS a general
tendency to diSSOCiate oneself from them,
e I have nothmg to do With It', you say, With
your nose In the aIr. When are we gOlDg
to realise that the speed breakers are our
own? They have been bU1lt at conSiderable
co::.t, for our own comfort. Now I have 10
mmd a lIttle contest that ought to generate a
tremendous amount of enthUSiasm. When
the Big Men on Campus (who are dlffe.ent
from the Big Boys on campus) deCide to
make further Improvements on the speedbreakers, a contest Will be held to suggest
SUitable deSigns for them The contest IS
open to all students except those who are
domg CIVIl Engmeeflng. I have 10 mmd a
Jaz7Y op-art deSign In lummous pamt for the
speedbreakers. And how about decoratmg
all the roads With floral patterns ~ So ChiC
you know 1 There Will also be an essay
contest on the speedbreaker m not less than
2,000 words startmg With the words, 'The
speedbreaker 1S the shortage of whisky m
sodablue eyes'
When a bunch of keys are found on the
road between Ganga and Jamuna, IS it
customary procedure to leave them at the
Main Gate to be picked up, one wondenng
what a wonderful aid to commUnIcation the
OAT mOVIe projector IS! Next week, If you
see a terse announcement, 'WlII the gorgeous
girl In the yellow saree meet the undel"'lgned
at the gate after the movie ~ " the undersignatory IS gomg to be yours truly. I thought
It would be a novel way to fix a date. Many
others seem to have had the same Idea. Can
you Imagme how thrilling It would be to
have your messages flashing across the screen
on a starry Saturday mght" Utterly romantic!
Here's another Idea. Why not have classes
at mght ID OAT In the form of cartoon strIps?
It IS whlspend that many lecturers could
eaSily be madc the subjects of cartoons,
purely In the 1I1terests of education of course.
I persona)ly prefer Donald Duck, .•...
I

-K.

MAHESH.

