DIR' I feel that econmlc status should be the
main cflteTlon In fact, I know a poor school
teacher whose son IS studymg In I I T and
who finds It difficult to support him So you
see poverty does eXist If the departments
ask for such students help we have absolutely
no objections Finance IS not the problem

CTS
In foreign universitieS, such a system
IS balanced with a staff eva'uation
Why
couldn t It be Introduced here also]
OIR
There Will be a system of staff evalua.
tlon defmltely There Will be class commit·
tees and through these class c:>mmlttees and
through questlonnaHe3, there Will be an
evaluatIOn of all courses
But this will be
between the teacher and student It has
nothing to do with the admlOlstratlon
CTS: Everyday, hundreds of students come
to the Ad Block for various academic problems
In most cases, we do not know whom to
approach Wouldn't It be advisable to have
a special cell Just to take care of student
problems, with a staff member 10 charge] We
find that clerks are Indifferent apathetic and
at times even discourteous and rude The
least they could do IS to be a bit polite and
sympathetic Couldn't you look IOto this 7
OIR' A vague generalisation IS useless from
and admmlstratlve pomt of view The only
thlOg we can possibly do IS to Issue a c.rcular
and that has no meaning So, If you could
bring 10 a specific case, we can call that
particular person and tick him off As far as
the concept of the cell goes there IS the Dean
of Academic Affairs, Prof N V C Swamy at
the present time And, for all cases concern·
lng, the course, you go to the Course Co-ordl.
nator or your teacher The Idea now IS to
decentralize the whole system so that, unless
a speCifiC problem arises, you don't have to
come to the Ad Block at all
eTS: There eXists no doubt that the I I T:s
as a whole, are more fortunate than any
general college In the country as regards
amenities But when vlewmg I IT, Madras
agalOst the other I IT's, we fmd that we lack
certam amenities
Kanpur prOVides fans In
all hostel rooms and there IS a proposal to this
effect m Bombay too And 10 Bombay, there
eXists such a facIlity as the Hobbles Center
where students learn the basIc art of mamtaln.~ ... --()llanc\.~ of dally\Jse
Couldn't such a
Je start~"""1 ..... !: "'-r:T.l",,,J fees]
.

,.....

-ro"

.-....-

~~~~~~
co~~ :,
can 'look bl hmd and see the

bluepnnt we have made for a Students Actl.
vltles Center. It won't be long before It gets
under way It Will, however be slightly less
ambitiOUS Here I would like to make a1 small
warning If you have rc aj Parkinson's law,
you may remember what he says about
monuments For example, as soon as India
House was built In london, the Indian empire
collapsed We have won the Inter -lIT for
eight times In a row now So please remembe r
(laughs) the necessity of a new bUilding
should not affect your performance 10 any way
As far as the Hobbles Center IS concerned go
ahead and organise It. What's the problem 7
CTS: The library Isn't what It should be.
What do you Intend dOing about It, Sit ]
OIR: I've already drawn up a plan of attack.
I'd like to make that place a better one to Sit
and spend some time In I've got the AC wor!...
In9 after qUite a bit of effort I'm getting an
Interror decorator to refurnish the place and get
a lot more elegant and good, comfortable
furniture IOtO the place.
CTS' It IS common knowledge that there
eXists very little rapport between staff and
students here What would you suggest?
OIR
You see, the student here IS more or
less put on a conveyor belt He IS given Math
instruction by one teacher, tutonals by another
teacher another class, another year, another
teacher and It goes on In hiS five years
here he IS handled like a car In an assembly
11O~ So no teacher knows any student unless
he IS a very mlschlevlous boy The alternative
to this IS, at least from the third year onwards,
the student should be handled only by a group
of five or SIX teachers
About 70 to 80 per.
cent of the COurses may be handled by these
five or SIX and only very few speCialised sub.
Jects by others. Administratively It IS feaSible,

CTS
There are qUite a large number of
foreign students here Couldn t you have a
speCial cell for them] They have more prob'
lems than other students
'look behind you. the BLUE PRINT you ne
" thaI Student ActiVities Cenlre

but whether the student Will like It or whether
the staff Will like It, I don't know
CTS
Don't you feel. SIT, that the new system
IS gOing to stunt partiCipation In extra·cUrrlcular actiVities 7 I I T Madras has a very long
history of sports, literary and cultural talent
And that IS one reason why we are preferred
among the five I ITs both In the employment
and 10 the higher studies line.
DIR. Whatever makes you think so] In the
UniverSity of Blrmmgham where I was a
student, The General Secretary was directed
to take one year off so that he could devote
hiS full time to student actiVities He was a
given hiS full scholarship, he was looked after
very well, he was a very Important person
Such a thing would be askmg for too much,
here Suppose you have a very large number
of extra-curricular actiVItIes, 10 the new
system you could go a bit slow, on the
academiC Side That IS a very Imporant faCIlity
Then you have the other advantage that you
do not have to pass In every paper you attempt
There IS an Instance of a boy, I don't know
hiS name, who IS trymg to get through a
particular paper for the fifth time Such a
thmg can never happen under the new systom.
The secret of success 10 the new system IS
consistency, not extra hard work If you are
a B grade student. accept If Your extra hard
work would probably get ~ an A grade
pOSSibly In one paper or t:j~IY In one

DIR
I beheve they have an AdVisor of sorts
HaVing a cell With clerks IS not gOing to help
You and me know how bureaucracy functions.
(laughs)

crs

OIR
Sure It IS gOing to be a complex and
Will one up next to the SWimming Pool It Will
house an Indoor stadium With 3 squash courts
or one basketball court, With a seating capacity
of 1500 In addition, It will house 3 billiard
tables, changing rooms, cloakrooms, and most
of all, a modern cafetena You'll deflnltel y
see something of It (referrrng to us 4th years).

THE DIRECTOR'S MESSAGE to
THE STUDENTS
(After a very thoughtful pause) EnJOy yourself, but please let other also enJOY themselves
Also, let not your permit of fun be at the cost
of ultimate happiness Be adventarous enough
to have fun and mature enough to have nQ
regrets later on Above all help us to make
our Institution a truly Jomt enterpnses.
We left after fervently thanking him, but he
smilingly brushed It off We came away satisfied that at last there was at the helm of affairS,
a man who had VISion, who had confidence
who knew students like the back of hiS liIand
and who would not only make promises but
would do all In hiS power to keep them.

~Al;t~r~'''' ~~atthe
~ ,Jmal bene It u g 7 t of super effort IS
__ all that much, as the economists would tell
you
Don't forget that we are also gOing to
give a personality profile on the grade card
So your extra-CUrricular actiVities also matter
please also remember that we hardly hear of a
First class fltst after he has passed out All the
people who really perform well In life ere rot
the flTst class firsts but those With a
well rounded personality

Could you expand on the proposed

SAC 7

IIJTERVIEW HIGHLlGHrS
'"

Staff evaluation to be Introduced

*

An
ambitiOUS Rs
Activities Center

'"

library to be renovated and expanded

'"

30 lakh Students

Students to be given a greater say In
the deCISion making process

CTS. Everyone knows that our Security
system Isn't what It should be, conSidering that
thefts have been on the Increase In the recent
past Instances are the thefts of Stereo
systems from Narmada and Saraswathl hostels,
not to mention Innumerable cycle thefts What
would you suggest. SIT 7
DIR. let me tell you something. Our Sec~.
nty system IS far better than many others In
the country, let alono the city We can d.)
very little about Internal thefts, that IS, whe,
the culprrt belOg a rasld-Jnt of the Instltut;!
Itself But thefts fr.lm t.l0 Institute, where the
goods are taken out of the Institute are rare
and the culprit IS Invanably caught at the gate
If the students are willing to have th'3lT rooms
searched whenever a theft Occurs In tha Hostels that would help
There IS also a Governme"lt directive which
tell s the police not to get Into any confrontation
With tho :audents because the students are
conSidered Inflammable and the police fire.
So thero you ar')
CTS: At p lesent certain lobs have been
prOVided to deserVing students subject to
parents mcome If Jobs were prOVided to
more students In the vacation, the student Will
get a feel of the actual pnnclple of work and
be more qualified as an all.rounder when he
steps out of I I T Students could do Jobs at
the Engmeerlng DeSign Center the Computer
Center, the Library, the Industrtal Consultancy
Center etc

2

.. I beheve students MUST be given a greeter
say 10 the deCISion makIng porocess

Do you know where the word 'Canter'
comes from 7 In an article In the Reader's
Digest wntten by I A R Wylie. She quotes a
fnend who told her, ' Most of the pllgnms
on their way to Thomas Becket's tomb
at Canterbury travelled on horseback, and, I
suppose got rather boa red by thelT sedate
progress To have galloped would have been
Indecorous but a sober intermediate galt broke
People along the roads
the monotony'
began callmg thiS easy lope the Canterbury pace' or 'galt', and In time thiS
was shortened to 'the canterbury' About
two hundred years later the word was shortened to Canter

