Reﬂections of an ex=ii.ii.itiian
-—A. Thyagaraja
It is with reluctance that I am putting down the following
remarks on paper.

It is not that the ideas are revolutionary

and would result in my getting the sack should someone
‘ higher up ’ read it. Far from it , they would seem almost
commonplace truisms.

The

reluctance stems from my

experience with the expression of ideas and words in our
country ' quite independently of their merit, no action
follows, nothing constructive is done.

PerhapsI am san-

guine in expressing the hope that at least some of the
readers of this magazine will ponder over these ideas and do
something.
Quite deliberately, I wish to restrict myself to three
problems in the academic environment at IIT. This is
not because they are the most important by a long shot,

but because I have thought about them for a long time
and am involved with them directly. It turns out too, that
loan suggest solutions to these problems which from my
direct, personal experience, are found to work.

There has

been much talk here in India and abroad of the relevance of
what is taught at the University to life. The question is a
complicated one, as no easy interpretation of the word
relevance exists. Further, what is not relevant today might
be intensely relevant tomorrow. I am not interested in the
question in this general form. I wish to ask, are all things
taught to B. Tech. students (for example) at the HT
necessarily equally important or is there a subset of ‘ core ’
subjects which is critically important, the rest mere

‘ padding ’ ‘I The reason I wish to ask this question (I must
remind you that I am asking as the teacher of one of these
subjects) is that, I feel personally (many of my colleagues
would appear to disagree with my view) that the course is
seriously overloaded. This overloading means that some six
to eight subjects are taught per semester and the students
are expected to work (in the classes and the labs.) for
something like forty hours per week. It is my considered
opinion that no student should be allowed to study more than
ﬁve courses per semester and the total number of hours
(including labs.) should not exceed thirty. Almost all
scientiﬁc and engineering subjects require a lot of independent thought, discussion with others, and the working out
of problems. I have been privileged to study at Cal. Tech.
where even more stringent restrictions on the work load
are imposed and I have not noticed that a typical Cal.
Tech. BS. is less able to cope with an engineering problem

2

than a typical IIT student. This must mean that large
portions of the courses must be irrelevant or readily available information which the students can be trained to look
up for themselves instead ofgrinding them for interminable
hours _in the classrooms. We can hardly expect any qualitative improvement unless this overloading problem is
honestly tackled by the Faculty. By reducing the number
of courses one can make serious efforts to impart instruction
on the core subjects on a non-trivial level by making the
students self-reliant and more conﬁdent in their ability to
solve problems.
The second problem I wish to discuss is the question of
attendance. I wish to question the proposition that
the University is responsible to the parents of students
in the matter of attendance in classes. The students
must be treated as responsible adults (whether they
are or are not) and must take the consequences of being
irresponsible. As a studentI have always felt that attendance was a meaningless tyranny, and as a staff-member,
I feel that it is a meaningless waste of time. If a student
can do what is expected of him (homework, examinations)
without a teacher’s help, why shouldn’t he?

Further, a

captive audience is not the one best suited to efﬁcient communication of technical information. Let me qualify my
disapproval of the present antedeluvian attendance system by
saying that at labs. or workshops, the work cannot be done
without the physical presence of the student at the appoint-

ed hour. Here, of course, attendance is essential for the
work to be completed. To stop a student from getting a
degree because he ‘ does not have the attendance’ is
unacademic and unbecoming of a University.
The ﬁnal problem is less speciﬁc. It has to do with
the ‘ miasma’ We appear to have a rotten ‘miasma’
here at IIT. The students distrust teachers and the teachers
are indifferent and insensitive to students and distrust each
other.

As if this were not

enough,

the

To even begin thinking about this problem. everyone
must deCide clearly what he wants. The students must
deCIde whether they just want the degree or want to learn

useful things in the course of getting one and learn to enjoy
domg useful things. The Faculty members must ask themselves whether they are deﬁcient in some respects, teaching
or research or just general sense of humour. If, of course,
they tell themselves that they are perfect, nothing more is
to be said, except perhaps they could ask themselves if

they are honest. The staff and administration must daily
remind themselves that the basic reason for the ex1stence
of the University and therefore themselves is the busmess
of educating students. A question which we must all ask
ourselves is how in the world are we justified in wasting
tax-payers’ (our own!) money and above all time in
perpetrating the million inefﬁciencies we do perpetrate
every day.

What we do seem to be pretty good at is asking

these questions With reference to others.
difference is responsible for the miasma.

This CI‘uClaI

Suppose instead, we recognized our own limitations and
extended the same tolerance of ourselves to others, we

might even be able to talk to each other courteously. If we
can for a moment reﬂect that another’s interest need not
necessarily be against self-interest, a meaningful dialogue is

pOSSlbIe.

Unfortunately

seriously and

everyone takes

himself very

cannot spare a thought for 1118 human or

natural environment. The only remedy I can suggest is that
every member of the HT community be given courses of
humourous reading beginning With a study ofP G. Wodehouse. It might be objected that laughter is incompatible
with the ‘ High Social Purposive Seriousness ’ which is called

for in these difﬁcult times. I think this is better than the
students givmg their famous imitation of sheep, the faculty
of a snarling pack of wolves, the staﬁ‘ of a squalling baby
and the administration of a block of wood.

staff and the

administration are constantly at each other. I have refrained
throughout from saying ‘ when I was a student here, it was
better’ because in the main, it wasn’t. However, it certainly
wasn’t worse. This constant questioning of the other
man’s bonaﬁdes, this loud and cacaphonous dissent, this
total dismclination to work seems to be a deep-seated
malady. The question is, can we collectively, as members
of the HT community, do something about it?

A. Tliyagaraja obtained his M.Sc. Degree in Mathematics

from this Institute in 1969.

This was fol/anal by a Ph D.

from Cal. Tech, U.S.A., in 1972 A year later, Dr.
Tliyagaraja joined the Department ofMat/iematies ofl I.T.,
Madras, as a Research Assoczate and is now an Asszstant

Profetsor.

