mwoa—m—<

N ”we aﬂa/ me

% {/wo/Mél, @4/Manf, m on aawa? U

From I. to r.

Although the invitation read 2 pm. 26th September ’74
for discussions with Prof. Nurul Hasan, Union Minister
for Education, we were able to meet him only at 3-00 pm.
for about half an hour. HoweVer, a few questions were
asked and the gist of his answer is published here.
To a question about raising the Post-Graduate stipends
to Rs. 400 from Rs. 250, and the undergraduate MeritRs. 75 to Rs. 150, Prof.

Hasan said that this matter had been discussed at the council of HTS and such raise was found necessary—‘ something
will certainly be done; I am hopeful’

‘ But Sir, what are

the chances?’ His reply was, ‘You haven’t taught me
computer science. I can’t make rational projections. I am
an arts student and can only “ predict the past” ’

‘ Sir, the students feel that by recognizing the Mess staﬁ'
as Institute employees the quality of their service might go
6

Prof B. Sengupto (first Director oflJJ’ Madras).
Dr. Pandllai.

Professor Nurul Hasan

cum-Means scholarships from

{51% meg! W572

down ’ To this he said that although he wanted the employees to be beneﬁted, sufﬁcient funds were not available. He
felt that the lack of money was the least important aspect
of the whole problem , it was the attitude of the students
towards the mess employees which was more signiﬁcant.
‘How are you going to deal with people whom you cannot
hire or ﬁre ? You must learn to do this.’
Finally, regarding increaSed ﬁnancial aid to Schedule Caste
and Schedule tribe students—personally he was convmced
that these students in the HT deserved a better deal. He
added there are some who feel that there should not be any
difference between the aid given to Schedule Caste students
in other institutions and those in the HT. However, Prof.
Nurul Hasan has been trying his best to_co.nv1nce the
others about the need to give more facrlities to the
Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe_ students in the
HT since the highest quality of education in the country
was available here.
He left as abruptly as he had come.

Prof. Nurul Hasan

Professor B. Sengupto
fatherl ﬁ ure who still earnestly believes that in the
Insotitute theytefcher takes the place of the father (/mother).

Probably this is unbelievable in this envnonment wherewe
even have to ‘ ﬁght ’ for ‘ better ’ student-staff relationships.
As for his views on Campasti'mes—‘ Nobody‘ should be afraid
;
of writing about anything that happens in the Institute
only don’t hurt anyone’s feelings

Q: What was the nature of the charter you drew.
up for Campasti'mes?
idea of it
A. I don’t remember it now, but the general reported
th twhatever hap ens in the campus should be
gftheamagazine.

Nogody should be afraid of dong this.

‘
ting events.
: But people are not afraid of repor
and one of
opinions,
their
air
to
afraid
are
they
Ra?her,

