the objectives of. Campastimcs is to focus attention on
problems concerning the students. Can this be done without
hurting anyone ‘2

A . In all such matters the code of the gentleman must
be kept in mind. You should not try to hurt anyone’s
feelings. There is more than one way, of saying the same
thing. Instead of saying ‘ You have done this work badly ,
you could say ‘Well, there are better ways of doing this.’
Q

In your days as director,

there

contact between you and the students.

was

a

lot of

15 it possible to

have such contact now without the director in any way

appearing to interfere in our aﬂ‘airs ?
A :

Oh yes, I used to visit the hostels quite often and

sit down for meals with my young friends without notice.
And during these visits they would discuss their problems
with me. Later I would meet my advisory committee and
discuss with them the suggestions.

How Esau Wood Sawed Wood

I had received from

the students. ThenI would incorporate these suggestions
whenever possible.
Q: Does this lead to overfamiliarity between staﬂ‘ and
students in the class-room?
A: No, there is no such thing as overfamiliarity.
All
that Iam dOing is treating you nicely; and if Itreat you
nicely you will treat me well too.
Q: Since you were directly involved with the inception
of the Institute, could you tell us something about the
original aims of the Institute ?
A: This Institute started purely as an undergraduate
Institution. This is because no useful research can be
carried on Without a ﬁrm undergraduate base. There
should be a continuous interaction between research and
undergraduate work because it is ﬁnally the undergraduates
who will carry on the research.
Q: There is a lot of talk about laying more emphasis on
P. G. and research work in the HTS. Does this mean that
the III“ is gradually being converted into a purely research
organization ?
A: No. I don’t think so. Teaching undergraduates
should be the most important objective of the HTS.
Q . But is there any motivation for better teaching since
it appears that most teachers concentrate on research ?
A. No, it is rather sad that we have always taken in
teachers on the basis of their research potential and not
on their teaching ability or aptitude. I think this attitude
ought to be changed.
Much as we would have liked to ask him many more
questions he was called away to some other engagement.

Esau Wood sawed wood. Esau Wood would saw wood.
All the wood Esau Wood saw, Esau Wood would saw. In
other words, all the wood Esau saw to saw, Esau sought to

saw.
saw

Oh I the wood Wood would saw! And oh ! the woodwith

which

Wood

would saw

wood!

But one

day Wood’s wood-saw would saw no wood, and thus the
wood Wood sawed was not the wood Wood would saw if
Wood’s wood-saw would saw wood. Now, Wood would
saw if Wood's wood-saw would saw wood. Now, Wood
would saw wood with a wood-saw that would saw wood.

So Esau sought a saw that would saw wood.
One day Easu saw a saw saw wood as no other woodsaw. Wood-saw would saw wood. In fact, of all the
wood—saws Wood ever saw saw wood, Wood never saw a
wood—saw that would saw Wood as the wood-saw Wood
saw saw wood would saw wood. I never saw a wood-saw

that would saw wood as the wood-saw Wood saw,would
saw wood until I saw Esau Wood saw wood with the woodsaw Wood saw saw wood. Now Wood saws wood with the
wood-saw Wood saw saw wood.

