RN EXCURSION INTO THE VALLEY BEAUTlEUL
In these man-trampled times, any sort of escape from
anything man-made means Paradise Re-gained. To me,
much of Kashmir seems like this.
Time has never journeyed to this land,
Flowers and heather bloom Out of date,
The rocks jut, the streams go singing on either hand, .
Careless if the season be early or late,
The skies wander overhead, new blue, now slate,

Winter would be known by his cutting snow
If June did not borrow his armour also.

It was on a warm afternoon that our ﬂight, right on
schedule, touched down at Srinagar airport. Amidst the
chatter of excited passengers and the clicks of safety—belts
being unfastened, we were informed that the temperature
outside was a cool 23 degree Celsius.

Iwas thrilled.

This was my ﬁrst visit to the place of

which Ihad heard so much.

And I was right here, in its

hospitable capital.
The ﬁrst impression that one gets of the airport is that it
has afriendly look. The terminus has not been polished,
plated and primed much and this gives it an informal and
welcoming atmosphere. There is greenery everywhere. At
what other airport can you ﬁnd ﬂowers growing right at
your feet? A soft breeze shufﬂes about, and the blossoms
bow as easily as geisha-girls, their fragrance accompanying

you right from the tarmac to the terminus.
Our initial fears about transport proved to be groundless.
A Volkswagen had been arranged for us and we were
whisked away to our place of stay—a house-boat. On our

a‘ sh? km

way, I was conjuring up all sorts of boats, but the real one

outclassed even my wildest conjectures. It seemed incredible to me that a house-boat could be so large and so handsomely furnished. It was an absolute pleasure to stay there,
catered to by an ever-smiling face.

But we had come to travel around and see Kashmir and
tired or not, we were not to be held back by anything. That
very afternoon, after our arrival, we were told that the
services of a ‘shikara’ belonging to the house-boat, were
reserved for us. A ‘shikara’ is as long as a rowing
boat but it has a canOpy and cushioned seats, which make it
much more comfortable.

A paddle, and not an oar, is used

to propel the ‘ shikara’. The boatman sits, precariously
perched, at the stern and it was a constant source of wonder
to me how our old coxswain and his very young son plied
their paddles apparently unwearied, and prepared to go on
forever.

of the lotuses, to our ﬁrst halt at Char Chinar, the place of

of this being the renowned Shalimar Bagh. It was built by
Jehangir and its beauty reﬂects his intense love for Noor

the four massive Chinar trees.

Jehan, his wife.

We glided on into the distance, skirting the outer fringe
Planted centuries ago these

Her childhood name was Meher-ul-nisa,

beautiful even today.
Understandably, in earlier times, gardens were considered

but the name Noor Jehan, meaning ‘ Light of the World ’,
was given her by her beloved. Legend has it that both were
extremely fond of beauty and one day, when on one of their
annual visits to Kashmir, they chanced upon a particularly
enchanting Spot, Noor Jehan voiced her desire that a garden
be built there and from that wish grew the reality of the
most famous garden in the world. ‘ Bagh ’, incidentally,
stands for ‘garden’.
.
Busy gardeners work furiously to maintain the beauty of this

to be an expression of love and affection, a classic example

place, which draws thousands of visitors even today. Every-

trees still stand four-square and aloof, on an island in the

Dal Lake, the only four-square Chinar spot on earth.
At a 20 minute slow-rowing distance is Nishat Bagh. This
‘ Garden of Pleasure ’, built by Shah Jehan, is one of the

many gardens for which Kashmir is famous. Built by
Mughal emperors, who had an eye for beauty, these gardens
have endured through the ages and remain, breath-takingly

9
3

