that it is something worth encouraging and if during any
year there is a fall in visitors to Kashmir, everyone involved is
duly compensated for the loss that they may have incurred.
I sincerely hope that such incentives remain. It is not rare
to hear someone say that that particular shawl is the
product of his father’s labour. The women, especially
during monsoons and winter, also turn out some master-

pieces.

Busy, busy, busy, is the impression one gets of the

people there.

If not out in the ﬁelds, the women-folk are

indoors weaving. Oblivious to the world outside their
social sphere, they work tirelessly from dawn to dusk.
There are quite a few furriers and taxidermists doing their
bit of damage.
The rest of the populace has found its metiér in agriculture.

As is well known, Kashmir has a climate best

suited for fruits and ﬂowers, in which it has a booming
export industry, the way to Yusmarg being bounded by vast

expanses of orchards.

Ideally, the fruits burst forth in

countless numbers in the months between

August and

October, although some come out as early as June.

Like

old men, the trees hunch forward with the sheer weight of

kids sidle upto me and examine my camera. After being
subjected to close scrutiny I would watch them laughingly
run off to spread the word. I didn't see a single kid come
forward to beg.
The vendors have a prodigious capacity for being mendacious and their honoroﬁcicabilitudinitatibus is always in
question. Where purchasing is concerned, I can safely
asseverate that any commodity bought by you would be
worth at least half the price paid. Once you have been
It’s so hard to turn them down once you see their

a person from AIR Srinagar, and to the blasé listener I gave
my impressions of the wonderful place.
We travelled widely and saw as much of Kashmir as we
possibly could. Inevitably, the place is becoming less of a
Paradise as far as escapists are concerned. Tourism is

vamoose, or else.

Pahalgam, the Valley of Shepherds, too had something in
store. It had one of those regular insistent sellers, but with
a difference. This time it was a medicine-man. Whether I
should call him a petty doctor or brand him a quack is left
to the reader’s discretion. Anyway, this old chap gave me
a little oil. He asked me to gently rub it on my temple and
to simultaneously tWiddle my toes. I must have looked a

sees vivacious kids darting after one another.

enough and that none of his (expensive ‘2) medicmal concoctions were necessary. Was it only a trick ‘2 I don’t know,
but I wonder how many bought his medicines out_ of sheer
panic. The speciality of yet another was to rub Oil on the
palm and ‘ make it’ come out from the back of the hand.
_
Wonder what they’ll do next with the bally Oil. _
Saffron, or Kaysar is also cultivated in plenty in Kashmir.

of straw tied neatly in bunches, ﬁbres being tied around the

cosmetics.

Their fresh, natural beauty renounces the need

for any rouge or mascara and the like. Bangles, anklets
and trinkets are very commonly used. Some of the women
still remain behind the ‘ purdah’ and in black robes. But
Kashmir too seems to be discarding old traditions. It was
not uncommon to see a segregation of women sitting in the
gardens listening to 140 db music with their purd‘ahs removed from their faces. The children too dress gaily, but
their chatter and innocent stares make them so lovable;

whereas I would have warded off a man, I let these sweet

We made it our base because of

upturned ‘ innocent’ faces. As much as a glimpse is enough
to unsettle you, so just close your eyes and bark at them to

up the oil imprint on paper but sadly said that Iwas healthy

ankle to keep the thingumajigs in place. The men-folk have
ﬁne features. Many of them Sport a beard and many others
have a light stubble. The women dress in brightly coloured
(and sometimes garish) clothes. Being fair of complexion,
it is very rarely that one sees a woman with heavily applied

So much for chemistry.
What about Srinagar?

discreetly sized up as well-to-do, they will tenaciously cling

frolic with an energy hard to control, and everywhere one

health and vitality are as natural as life itself.
The men wear a tight pyjama and a kurta, complemented
by light foot-wear, a cap (which affords no protection from
the heat) placed on top of the head and a little to the back, and
a sober-coloured overcoat. Shepherds have foot-wear made

it is better not to boil the mineral-rich water; the depositiOn of carbonates on the vessel being still more undesirable.

to you.

weird sight and I studiously avoided the curious gaze of the
tickled audience. This extraordinary man claimed that the

It does the

At ﬁrst I would

very gingerly apply my lips to a glass of water, but ﬁnding
it apparently safe I overcame my initial inhibitions. Perhaps

its advantages. It lies at the most central place. Pahalgam,
Gulmarg etc. lie in completely different directions and each
is accessable only via Srinagar. I was one day cornered by

the fruit that they bear. Don’t try to be kind and ease their
burden for if caught by the owners, you’ll be left wondering
what hit you. They will invariably build a replica of Mt.
Everest out of the mole-hill you inadvertantly made. It’s
second nature to them.
I would ascribe the excellent health of these people not
only to the salubrious climate of Kashmir, but also to the
easy access they have to fruits. These fruits can supplement any diet and still be for the better. Healthy children

heart good to see that vicissitudes have not reduced them
to creased brows and despair. For these lucky children,

‘ pasteurise ’ the water before drinking it.

rapidly expanding and human proliferation taking its toll of
wild-life. But vestiges of bliss still remain to attract everyone in search of beauty and that rare commodity called
Peace of Mind.
A sinking heart and an ascending aircraft simultaneously
left that glorious place. The former was inside me, and I
was inside the latter
bound for Delhi.
RAVI BAHAL

same oil would ﬁnd its way out of the feet where a healthy
person was concerned but would be occluded somewhere

along the body in the case of an ailing one. Imagine my
astonishment, and relief, when oil actually did come out
from my foot. Here I do not wish to accentuate my good
health but the fact that oil whizzed from head to foot!
Triumphantly (at having demonstrated his powers ?) he held

But beware ! Kaysar is of two types. One variety is called
‘Mongra’ and the other is called ‘ Lacha’ The ﬂower

from which saffron is extracted has ﬁve petals.

Four are

yellow in colour and one is red. It is the red part that is
plucked out and used in the making of saﬂron.
this is pure saffron.

ObViously

Most enterprismg people give the

yellow petals a red hue. This is then mixed With the pure
form. Thus one ﬂower yields one unit of mongra or ﬁve
units of lacha and hence a neat 400% proﬁt. Pampore has
.
a climate best suited for the cultivation of saﬂ'ron.
Kashmir comprises three districts. One ofthern,Srinagar,
but
is the capital. The previous capital was Avantipore,
its
now it is a neglected place with a dilapidated temple as

only showpiece.

Know Then Thyself, 0 Teacher
(With apologies to Alexander Pope)
Know then thyself, presume not student to scan,
The proper study of teacher is teacher, Man.
Placed on this isthumus of middle state
A being darkly wise and rudely great,

With too much knowledge for sceptic’s side,
With too much weakness for stoic’s pride,
He hangs in between, in doubt to act or rest,
In doubt to deem himself a god or beast;
In doubt his mind or body to prefer,
Born but to die and reasoning but to err ;
Alike in ignorance, his reason such
Whether he thinks too little or too much,

Chaos of thought and passmn, all confused,
Still by himself abused or disabused ,
Created half to rise and half to fall ;

Great Lord of all grades;
Sole judge of truth, in endless error hurled,
The glory, jest and the riddle of the world.
JAFFAR MOHIUDDIN.

Built in the Pallava times, it has an
Wthh shows how

IS THERE ANY WATER

_
good the Pallava code was. _
Strangely enough people in Kashmir do not bother to

IN THE POT I

indecipherable writing on some stones.

ll

