Sriram College of Delhi, a virtual onlooker, managed 4
points. IITK were good but 45 minutes is too brief a
span to qualify a quiz as an accurate test of knowledge.
The bell saved IITK from us. During the quiz Ramku
proved he could say if a painting was done by Rembrandt

crazy one can get) and was literally carried out by ‘ armed

or not

IITK eventually won the ﬁnal

the other half was spent in the train. We have returned
prlijly to ﬁnd ourselves in the quagmire of periodical tests,
a s

This year IITM also

The western music programme was good but the sultry

—SUDHIR.

jomed the bandwagon. A hundred and twenty of us
(including hangers-on from IlTD) had crammed into a
compartment for seventy-ﬁve (the chicks in the group never
had it so good). Somehow everyone got through intact to
Kanpur.
Nice place, this IITK. The Yanks have been as gener—
ous there as the Germans here. The structures there, unlike ours are the work of architects. The campus itself isn’t
a patch on ours and on those hot, dusty September mornings,
looked dreary and listless.
With the experience of eight years behind them, the

atmosphere of the pandal did it harm. Mainly soft num—
bers were done and one singer from IIT-KGP impressed
everyone with his vibrant VOice. Our guys, Eddie (with
his Woodstock numbers) and Randhir Naidu were good

PEREGRINATIONS
From far and near they came. IITK’s annual cultural
festival is a kind of Woodstock, only a little more conventional and organized. For those eight or ten colleges of
Delhi, it is an annual pilgrimage which begins with a
clamorous train journey to Kanpur.

organisers had planned well and showed that they had
learnt their lessons well. But on the ﬁrst day the combined

brains of IITM and IITD beat their apparently foolproof
set-up in acurious show of wits. Sorry, details can't be
divulged here but everything ended up in good humour and
leVity. In their anxiety to organise well the IITK people
gave the whole show a little too formal
outlook.

There _were-none of those musical shows under the trees
as we had here for our Mardi Gras (they have plenty of
trees, mind you). Everywhere there was this air of rigidity
and formality. In the mess, we were assigned tables and
subjected to scrutiny (there were plenty of hangers-on from
IITD). The grub was more than just edible but Oliver
couldn’t ask for more. Have you ever heard of anyone

and Louis showed that he had taken last year’s

psych‘iiology course seriously.
roun .

but one look at the ﬁeld and you’ll forgive them for not

bringing home any prizes. Randhir had the misfortune
of being pre-empted to both the songs he had been so
well prepared With, by singers before him. He sang one
of them ‘One morning in May ’ and clearly excelled his
We found time to go around the Institute. Their
library is something. We learnt that their academic programmes require a lot of hours of study in the library.
Would you believe that in some subjects each student is
issued with a copy of the prescribed text-book by the

library for the whole semester? IITK surely have the edge
over us in academic matters and we have much to learn
from them. There is, of course, quite a bit to their TV
Centre and the closed circuit network. The Computer

place pseudo-brain to that ofa genuine thinker. He projected

minute’ contest at IITD a few days earlier.

The whole

show was very impressive indeed but if we had staged
our play ‘Luv’ (rejected as late entry) we would have
matched the prize winning ‘ Theatre game’
Our quiz team of Ramkumar and John Louis lost to

IITK, 14 points to 24 in the preliminary round. Lady

l2

Conceive of a sinner who is a Catholic and devout. What
compleXity in his feeling for the Church, what pieties of
He has to make such

intricate shows of concealment to his damned habits. Yet
how Simple is the Church’s relation to him. Extreme
Unction Will deliver his soul from a journey through hell.
So it is With physics and engineering. Physics is the
church, and engineering the most devout sinner. Physics
is the domain of beauty, law, order, awe, and mystery of
the purest sort, engineering 18 partial observance of the
laws and puttering With machines which never work quite

as they should work; engineering, like acts of sin, is the
process of proceeding boldly into complex and often forbidden matters about which one does not know enough—the

laws remain to be eluCidated—but the experience of the past

liousness was written all over us. Everywhere we heard
this tribute to our IBM 370 system.
Ravichandra played for us on the Veena in the Indian

and hunger for the taste of the new experience attract one

music (light and classical) competition.

forward. So bridges were built long before men could
perform the mathematics of the bending moment.

He is really good

veena and a sitar and poor Ravichandra languished in
obscurity. Even we weren’t of much help to him. The singers chose their renditions well.
In the elocution contest,Gadi,our sole representative, was
off color. But he more than adequately made up for it in
the extempore debate where his wit earned him a round of
applause. Mahesh for his part, analysed the topic ‘ Life is
absurd ’, well but the delivery lacked its usual punch. The
contest was a c105e one and the judges had a diﬂicult job
deciding, against us. The whole story repeated itself for
the debate and we came out empty—handed. The topic
had something to do with God, his house on earth,
people and stones.
Now coming to the literary events at IIT Delhi, Mahesh
did very well to ﬁnish third in the ‘Just a minute ’ contest
(if you don’t know what this is. listen in to the BBC). He
can score as well with his gab as with his bat. The writer’s
performance was mediocre and he was eliminated in the
preliminary round. But Mahesh lost his touch in the Mock
session (this is a frivolous business which measures how

onto the play his conception of life as a game and depicted
the many facets of man—woman relationships according to
that conception. The same guy had won the ‘Just a

Mailer on Physics and Engineering

Centre looks much more impressive than ours and houses

ble but this was precisely what Mahesh and Anil Gadi were
doing after the second day. Back home things weren’t, after
all, that bad.
The schedule was tight. Plays were staged late in the
evenings on three days and quite a few were laudable.
IIT-KGP came up with a long drawn out one (‘ Bandi’)
which ended up as a test of patience for the audience.
The best play was from Xaviers, Bombay. This play was
it progressed it changed his image from that of a common-

why they don’t Win the Inter-[IT meets.
This coverage is for only half the period of the trip, for,

ﬁve systems but when we were taken around it supercil-

but up north people couldn’t tell the difference between a

an experiment by the director (can't recall his name) and as

There is not much to say about IITD except that it

has an imposmg Students’ ActiVities Centre. One wonders

observance live between his sins.
predecessor.

It may seem incredi-

pining for Saras or Narmada grub ?

men’

An extract from:

0] a Fire on the Moon,
by NORMAN MAILER.

