touched my heart was the bundle of cloth beside her; a
child sleeping trustingly on the pavement—trusting in
this

country to prowde her with a future.

Pointers to the

Flowers Never Bend
with the Rainfall. . . .

Placement Section

The vision ﬁlled my

brain and as I walked I sought desperately for an answer;

trying to assuage my guilt for being what I am? Idon’t
know. Confusion.
Then suddenly I saw the solution plain before my eyes—a
banner across the road—Welcome to Prime Minister.

(i) Time and again pleas have been made for the

almost entirely by students (at a cost for many of them in

It began as stories often do—once upon a time (when I
was young and handsome), I ﬂoated on a wispy cloud of
cotton-candy, looking down upon the world with rosecoloured Spectacles. I knew that the world was pink, so the
spectacles weren’t really necessary but I never bothered to
take them off—they were rather comfortable. You feeling
hungry brother? Help yourself to cotton-candy, sit back,

terms of classes, periodicals etc.).

relax.

appointment of a full-time PlaCement Ofﬁcer but these have

v’ielded no results so far. A very strong plea was made by
Mr V. Ramakrishnan, the outgoing Alumni Secretary, on
the Alumni Day. in view of the conditions in the Placement
Oﬂice last semester. Due to lack of staﬂ, the show was run
The administration as

usual was slow in reacting to the situation.
I don’t think I need to go again into the reasons for this
demand. It has been repeated too many times right from
Bhatla’s days and by now, I’m sure everyone is familiar with
them. What we need is the appointment of a full-time
Placement Ofﬁcer at least of the rank of an Assistant Professor. He could work under the guidance of a senior Professor in the Institute. His duties apart from Placement could
be liaison work for the Institute now that the ICC has been
established. Such a person would also be a formal channel
of feedback from the Industry as to their requirements
relating to the outputs of the Institute (viz. Engineers and
Consultancy Services). Needless to say, such a feedback is
absolutely necessary. This feedback will help us modify our
programmes to suit the needs of Industry.

This person

Quote again:

Of God and Truth and Right

And I wander through the night without
direction
So I’ll continue to continue to pretend

Dream of castles in the air, never-never land and, of

course, fairy princesses. (Ms’s please read fairy princes.)
How does it feel to lose one’s faith? I fell into a bottomless well, a yawning chasm that gaped suddenly before me.
I grappled with the blackness that invaded me from within
and without—but in vain.

‘ The mirror on my wall
Casts an image dark and small
But I’m not sure at all it’s my reﬂection
And I’m blinded by the light,

My life will never end,
And ﬂowers never bend with the rainfall.’
—PHILIP

It ﬁlled me and spilled over into

my mouth leaving behind a taste of old shoes and rainwater.

Endlessly I fell, spinning towards nothing.

Silence

—a ringing, terrible silence shrieked at me and I had nothing
in me to ﬁght with. Slowly I came to rest and as the light
slowly broke in the darkness I saw a desolate waste instead
of the comfortable security of cotton-candy clouds.
Pretty

words

strung

together

meaning

nothing

SOLUTIONS

in

particular.
When someone, whom you respect and look up to, lets

CROSSWORD

you down—then that ranks as the biggest betrayal of them

could be designated Public Relations Oﬂ'icer or Industrial
Liaison Ofﬁcer or Placement Ofﬁcer. Of course, this aspect
doesn't concern us very much as long as we have someone
in the Placement Ofﬁce.

Look around son, and watch the way the world walks.
Walk with it, it’s easier to swim with the stream. It’s not
time to make a change—relax and take it slowly. ‘ I don’t

(ii) I think we students would greatly appreciate it if the
departments could lend a helping hand in the placement

want to walk barefoot in the mud or sleep in the rain
Charlie, so I'm off the Cincinatti to carve myself a niche

process
Up~to-date the Management Department is the
only one which has placed everyone of its students, and to a

in high society—and the rest of you be damned.’_ ‘Let .us

'pvau
(sz) Homo (9z) peaid (zz) Stsquo (Iz) imsau
(6t) P919911UEI (LI) Hint/mun (9i) 91919QII°CI (£1)
81991 (8)
vdvd 319m 12qu (9)
msnbuuaq (s)
>I°IC[(17) sassaldxms) P91119S(Z) emosswa (I) :Imoa
'pasiwaa (60
9109190 (82) mm (M) althuexa (9z) memo (vz)

mark this a festive occasion, my friends; and dignify lt-Wlth

JaAo

speeches. Let us go forth and win laurels for this institute,
dressed up and gilded as men and quaking at the emptiness
inside.’
Quote: ‘ Well I’m all for leaving and that being done,

ma (SI) 89le (vi) Summit (21) uaiins (ii) snﬁe
Janos (OI) down (6) isqma (s) puaosad (i) =sswv

certain extent, the Aeronautical Engineering Department too
Each Department has liaison with Industry in its particular
ﬁeld. It should not be difﬁcult for the Heads of Depart-

ments and the staff to place at least some of their students.
Also, this personal interest on the part ofthe staﬂ' of the
welfare of the students would go a long way in strengthening staff-student relationship.
RAVI.
KANNAN.

all.

Judas, you ain’t seen nothing yet.

ssed (zz)

193125

(oz)

unitsirqg

(31)

911219111

I’ve put in a request to take up my turn in that forsaken

paradise that calls itself “ Hell”—where no one has nothing
and nothing is well, meaning, fool, pick up thy bed and rise
up from your gloom smiling.
Give me your hate and do as the loving heathen do.’
Walking the city streets at night, I came upon a pavement
ﬂower seller. She sat beneath the mercury lamp, the better

to display her pitiful wares—the small pile of ﬂowers faded
and choked by the fumes of the trafﬁc that thundered by.
Her face was a mask of exhaustion and—reSignation. What

CHESS
nuts 5 sun 'IHOHS

fvmr ‘IOHL ‘sa‘x ‘1)ni9 ‘zbn ‘INHS tﬁuex ‘qowav
faxuvmis ftmuu‘N >< az ‘ENN ‘tiosmi I (q)
'anzur

f
x d ‘ll39NNZ ‘9Nd' "l JI
Eggs”)? JI 'EOOZ 3203 10 9Hﬂ

'SHHOZ ‘SEIEI 10
[31 (wow)

cm X be PUB INOOz ‘SaAow d8 10 LNEI HEDIOI (v)
13

