lopsidedness of our election system do its insidious magic,
where the deserving are trampled and the crude are frothed
out and given a free hand to indulge in a spell of visionless,

hypocritical ﬁnger-ﬂexing. It is a sad commentary on what
was once supposed to be a tradition of judiciousness and
good sense.

There may just be one big consolation in all

this: only a greater degree of commitment and awareness
(on the part of those who have not yet washed their hands
of any kind of involvement here) will ensure that what they
do get is what they would like to have: certainly not a

The end of elected charisma and
the beginning of multiformity
Once upon a time, secretaries were rare birds (long-legged,
snake-eating birds of prey according to my dic) who tended
to bring to their bird-ship a kind of personal ﬂair that
carried them several cuts above the rabble. Post-election
wings would sprout and the awed populace would watch
them eagles dare. You sighed as you thought of the justice
of everybody’s collective choice and the jazz of big-bird

charisma which these creatures would project to the expectant world as they spearheaded various migrations for
various occasions and brought home their booty in pagan
splendour. It was a grand experience while it lasted, and
one look at the steering ﬂock we have now will serve to
strengthen the deliberate need for all the nostalgia and
reminiscence.

Of course, one cannot do much about dull

and uninspiring birds if there is no better plumage from
which to choose. Unfortunately, we are a pathetically
docile lot.

There are very few on the campus who would

care to be assertive when given the opportunity and the
medium, care to separate their individualities from the
engineering rut and care to see that responsible posts are
not monopolised by a motley bunch of ulcers (With one or
two exceptions, maybe) who would look more elegant if
hidden away.
_
_
And to top it all, we have two head-birds, each more exqui-

sitely insuﬁ‘erablethan the other, a kind of blustermg blumVll‘
that makes one begin to wonder whether this can truly be

This is chieﬂy because we are trussed up in an out-dated,

outmoded and moribund technical system that tells one
nothing of the steady world-wide progressions in experimental modes of communication, future-oriented research and

processes of adaptation to change. And if the various
disc1plines out here are badly geared to absorb and nourish
these

progressiVe academic trends, it is no wonder that

multiform rash of say, half-a-dozen secretary-generals that

our understanding of the engineering sciences is beginning
to get so rudimentary, static and haphazard that the best

even the UN would shy away from.

of our graduates entering the mainstream of their respec-

Economising on rituals is
strictly for dream-time

overdue mow“ -

educative structures are reputed to foster and often leaves
one with a vehement distaste for science in any form.

They tell me that we are living in an age of enlightenment.
Witness how sensitive everybody is to population, pollution
and the economic crisis. And here, on this campus, we
produce tokens to this reduce-conserve-and-economise
spirit such as a ﬁve-day-week and measures to consume
less paper and so on. But when it comes to ritual-time, out
go these scrupulous affectations and the big administrative
wheels churn away to concoct brilliant multi-thousand
rupee pageants that could easily out-dazzle the trappings of
a moghul durbar on the eve of the emperor‘s coronation.
Who do we conduct these super-decorated annual convocations for ? Those who travel all the way here to be handed
that gloriOus scroll for which they had to go through a ﬁveor seven-year marathon are hardly impressed by the fanfare
and display. Their families are interested in seeing them
get the scroll anyhow. The struggling mass of those oncampus are hardly bothered about the grandoise occasion

as long as the holiday follows. The chief deity for the
occaSion goes through the process with mechanical
obsequies for the odd hour and half. So where is all the
feverish need for such an extravaganza? Maybe the gods
have to be appeased and the burnt sacriﬁcial offerings have
to be placed on the altar of protocol and the glory of
institution, but would it make any difference if we had no
convocations at all? Many other universities have rid

themselves of these essentially ostentatious spectacles and it
simply goes to prove that at least some institutions have
the courage to kick hypocrisy where it needs to be kicked
most, namely, in the rear.

But as far as the administra-

tion here is concerned, everybody seems to have frozen
feet (let alone rears).
The need for inventing an adaptive,
outgoing, future-oriented education

Out of the hundreds of those here who are supposed to
be undergomg a great spell of technical indoctrination, there
are very few who would care to pause and examine the. value
or methodology of the framework they ﬁnd themselves in.

It

the fascinating representative sample of what our institute

requires only a few minutes of reﬂection to see that the
stuff that we derive from this so-called educative process

produces. But never mind, the tribe has chosen its schiZOid
messiah well. Maybe we deserve no better for letting the

duces no blaze of that sheer fanatical zeal which higher

is less than mediocre, has no enlightening qualities, pro-

tive ﬁelds are discovering that they are just beginning to get
educated, all ma again. It is all very well to boast of
havmg_ a sophisticated computer and a lot of so-called
inter-disciplinary departments, but it must be recognized
that it is only through an organized revitalization programme of the disciplines already existing can we hope to
achieve

any realistic

educational

structure.

It- is

not

enough to maintain that a founding in classical engineering
fundamentals can serve as a spring-board into the changeoriented world of the present. What we essentially
lack in our educative set-up here is an organized approach
to keep adaptive processes working on the curriculum. A
few changes are seen now and then, but these are more or
less random gestures.

No signiﬁcant advances are ever

observed in the attitudes of those among the teaching
faculty, shackled as they are to an absolutely bland, uninspiring approach to their respective subjects and instructional
methods. It is true that there are a few among them who
make bold attempts to keep pace with the challenges of
change, who try to diversify and stimulate the mobs presented yearly to them, but then, these are deﬁnitely the exceptions. It is important to realize that the process of
adjustment to change and a deliberate consolidated effort to
usher in the future (the name for this is prognostics) are
becoming vital and relevant features in all major academic

centres the world over, not merely because it is the fashionable thing to do, but because the highly accelerated and
hectic nature of change on the immediate material scale has
made it essential to hold education in a state of ﬂux if it is
to be prevented from becoming totally retrograde and
meaningless. And if there is any sense in calling an
institution of today a center of advanced learning, it can
only come from a sincere attempt from the part of those

responsible for the structure of education there to.ensure
that what they build up will be adaptive, outgomg and
future-oriented at every level and in all circumstances. To
this end, it may be agood idea to set up a section or department of prognostics and progressive understanding which
could serve to inject a certain measure of life into the
decaying disciplines we see all around us now. Would
anybody from the humanities department (also part of
the general decay, incidentally) care to follow up the
suggestion ?
.
unsound-axe CHI.
17

