The editorship, or how to make

your honour wrong (so you think) when he yells at you

mincemeat as dinner for papa
There was, a short while ago, a magazine which took
shape with a streak of rebellion and managed to absolve

THE BUS-WALLAHS

itself from what seemed to be an inevitable collapse, but in

My beard might turn ﬂaming orange overnight—I wouldn’t
be as surprised, I might even strike oil in my kitchen
garden while digging for earthworms—I wouldn’t be as
happy; it might even be that this article will get published

the process it also managed to absolve itself from its
primary readership, namely the odd two thousand of us here,
and papa, gifted as he is with all-encompassing wisdom,
deCided quickly and ﬁrmly that the time had come to exercise his publishing prerogative and duly dumped the matter
of the editorship into a limbo, having brushed aside a few

in Campastimes—even this wouldn’t bowl me over as the
bus-wallahs did that ﬁne morning.

inconsequential nominations. Campastimes was once supposed to be a free-style, independent, student-based publi-

to the making of a rare day.

cation With papa acting as cheer-leader on the side of the
tracks; the editor was not put under obligations (because he

were a few friendly clouds around, not the overfriendly
ones which begin to cry over your shoulder the minute you

That particular morning had all the ingredients essential
The sun was mellow; there

and you yell back (and there is so much heat all around
that you could bake a cake), and everyone around looks at
both of you and sniggers to his heart’s morbid delight. Nay
you are sorely mistaken if you take this ‘ ﬁne morning tiﬁ‘z

to be such an affair.

On such a ﬁne morning you don’t

‘Just pick up a quarrel ’ but you ‘ CREATE ONE” ‘ I hope
the subtle distinction is not lost’, (InCidentally this is one
of the stock phrases to be used when creating a tiff). The
altercation starts on a low key—both parties stating their
opinions not absolutely opposed but havmg some undeﬁned
common ground which if identified can resolve the conﬂict.
But you don’t allow your opponent to identify this, since all
is then lost. So you raise our voice a note up the scale.
Your opponent, unless himself a past master of this art,

happened to be the whim of some golden elected boy). but

greet them, ‘ how do you do ? ’ But what really did portend

will go 3 or 4 notes higher.

then, you see. free-wheeling is a luxury that cannot be
indulged in on this campus, not as long as the almighty papa
and his brood continue to display the iron ﬁsts beneath
the xelvet glOVes. When do we ever get out of the dark
ages .

a happy day was that my shirt hadn’t been debuttoned by

the footpath was free of vagrants and dangerous dogs.

have successfully ensured blinding him to reason. Next
raise your voice a quarter note higher. This small excursion from your normal pitch Will tempt your antagonist to
screech his lungs out. (At this stage you might even mildly

There was a fair chance of a ﬁne day ahead.
the bus-wallahs.

advise him that his voice box is liable to damage.) By now
you have attracted enough attention. All you have to do now

For the very many among us who do profess to be

the overconscientious dhobi , the air, for once, was not

burdened by the gross sounds of the tea~shop radio; and
Except for

strongly opinionated about the things that we sense and
observe on this campus (but are rendered impotent due to a

strong distaste for the insane gamut of the so—called electoral system here) this magazine could be an instrument of
strong and meaningful expression. But this can only come
about if we see to it that the editor is not bound by compromises, contracts and obligations thrown upon him by
papa and his handpicked treasure-chest of committees.
Elected representatives (who are, in general, pleasantly
dev0id of both imagination and literary inclinations) have
no business setting up either the editor or his associates. A
magazine can be truly, critically and fruitfully assertive only
ifit is aggressively independent . the moment its structure is
abused and distorted by strictures and policres framed by
papa’s chosen ones the essential meaning of its existence is
lost.
What each editor has to think about is not merely how
best he can compile the four odd issues in his annual tenure
(and leave the magazine half-cocked for the wolves) but also
how best to ensure that what he has started is properly

carried over and perpetuated. And to this end, the least he
can do is to pomt out that as outgoing editor, he is the
only person who can be in any position to assess the degree
of involvement, the personality and the potential of the
next editor. And to ensure that, he should have the conﬁdence to put his nomination down in print in the last issue

he edits, and hope like hell that papa honours it.
This is pretty obViously the only way to ensure that this
magazine can become emphatically assertive, vital in its
qualities of self~perpetuation and spiritedness, anticipative,
educative, compulsively readable and very very beautiful.
T. ASTATINE.

l8

It was still a full ﬁve-minute leisurely walk on a ﬁne
morning (and a two-minute walk if it has been a warm one)—
at this critical distance when I was undecided between preambulating slowly, inhaling the morning air and putting out
what passes as my chest and muttering to myself——‘ this is
going to be a ﬁne day’ ten times, as suggested by the Rev.
Norman Vincent Peale, and trotting to the stop before the
next bus could roll past me oblivious to my frantic hand
waving It was such a distance and such a day that I decided
to give the Rev. Peale a chance—poor man, hadn’t he given

This means all is well.

You

is to lower your voice suddenly to something just about a
whisper, leaving your poor opponent yelling his head oﬂ‘
and generally inviting alot of unwanted attention. And
then you can start sniggering (inwardly of course, Open

sniggering is a sign of coarseness and likely to be construed
as ugly and rustic). A ﬁne morning once again. If your
opponent is your supervisor, he will wish you the very best

in your future and give you the month‘s wages and maybe
deny you all the overtime you claim to have put in.

But

for this sort of precipitous action on the part of your
opponent due to his utter lack of humour and to his haying

so much of his time trying toimbue in me vitality, verve and

chanced to be in a station in life superior to yours (which

an unfailing conﬁdence in life and hope in a richer future ?
(Only he got the richer by a million_ copies at Rs. 7 a

you always felt he never deserved), this is the best way to
start a ﬁne day.

piece and [was the poorer). It was at this Juncture—Just as

I was through my ninth repetition—‘ Everything Will go ﬁne
by me today ’, when I sighted the red monstrosity. Why
dull red, I have always wondered. Why not blue and cream
candy horizontals or why not blue polka dots on a flaming
orange background ?

It was quite full and [really didn’t expect the bus to
stop at the bus stand and anyway not near me. But I did
wave my hand! I was a bit early that morning and if I took
this bus I would be at work a little too early, which I didn’t
want to be. I wished to be a little late today. I would get the
opportunity to have a small tiff with my training supervisor—‘ Can’t get a bus these days sir! Bus never stops
You may wonder why anyone would want to quarrel_on

such a ﬁne morning. Ah! it is here I have to expatiate
on this art which, I have watched others practise
on some innocent prey. It is not anything like a quarrel
you pick up on a grouchy day with someone who does

As I said,l was still some distance from the bus stand

when I waved my hand at the approaching bus.

Why did I

wave my hand? Because it was a ﬁne day and on a
ﬁne day one does things which Will not stand the
scrutiny of logical reasoning and logical
reasomng
would have it that I would create a quarrel on a ﬁne

day (see deﬁnition of ﬁne day given earlier and repeated here
for convenience—a ﬁne day is a day on which you create a
tiﬂ‘ for no reason at all) and this logical reasoning meant]

should not wave my hand.

Hence I did wave my hand,

Q.E.D. (this is something similar to what I read in the preface to a book—‘ What Philosophy Is’—where you go
round and round the logical merry-go-round till you

reach a logical conclusion).

So by now] had waved my

hand, but did not expect the bus to stop.

Lo and be-

hold, praise be to Allah, the dull red mOnster applied its
‘Caution, air brakes’, and screeched to .a halt right in

front of me. I was perplexed , I was dismayed , I was

