slow on the uptake but even my mouse-brain could handle
this wavelength. I slowly pushed the chair back ready to
Sprint. ‘ It will cost ﬁfteen rupees ; records must be main-

On Pressure Cookers

tained, oﬂicial stamp has to be issued, and then the
magistrate will sign.’ It seemed like the ratification of the
Slmla pact.
<
‘ But I don’t have that much money.’

The court building stood massive and frowning; it was

turn to look sadly at hi-dome. In fact both of us would have

an ugly red, rather an intermediate colour, neither truly red

put our arms around each other and cried our hearts
out. ‘But sir, I have an idea’. The sun started shining

Hi-dome looked

at me ﬁercely. Something had gone wrong with his plan. I
had looked a rich sucker and here I was cribbing

about a

by a scrawny little man with a balding head, resembling a
hi-dome pressure cooker. I was uneasily shufﬂing my feet
about. it was my ﬁrst visit, you know, and I was as nervous

He led me aside, winked at me broadly and suggested we
have a cup of tea with a friend of his. Not a bad idea actually, a tea is welcome at any time of the day, but 1 had a

as a young bride on her honeymoon. I was also reminded
of the rich, titled Englishman, who anxious to bag a tiger on
his ﬁrst safari, broke out into a cold sweat at the ﬁrst snap

sneaking suspicion that my pockets would be considerably

measly ﬁfteen rupees. The oily bastard was giving Hi-dome
an even tougher look. We were all set to explode when Hidome gasped ‘ How much money have you ‘2’
‘ None, you —’ and I utteredone of those lovely Tamil
words which Hi-dome had used ten minutes back. I grabbed the form from the other crook’s hand and thumped
Hi-dome on the back with all my might. This time he

lighter after this tea.

took off and hit the ceiling.

nor truly orange. a half breed of dubious parentage.
Hardly had I entered this building than I was pounced upon

again, the mists rolled away and I looked at him hopefully.

over them; their noses are usually crooked, their eyes glassy
and ﬁecked with yellow, their teeth broken, stained and

‘ Does the magistrate come to this place? ’ I asked innocently. Hi-dome gave me a scorching stare and I swallowed
hastily and looked sufﬁciently apologetic.
Well we walked up to this tea—wallah and on the way my
companion smiled at me slyly and said ‘ May be I can help
you ’. I looked at him happily and gave him a resounding
slap on the back. Hi-dome tottered and blew steam with the
typical low speed jet noise /announcing that rice was .
ready. He sneezed so hard that a one—eyed crow
feeding innocently on the remnants of a stinking rat
uttered a screeching cackle and ﬂew straight into the wall.
It took me quite a few minutes to calm down Pressure
Cooker, he was about to burst. His friend joined us at the
tea stall and there was a long dialogue on litigations and of
a case where a woman was suing her husband for refusing to
support her because she was pregnant; she insisted the
baby was his, he insisted it was not and stupidly enough
told her he was sleeping with somebody else, whereupon
madame exploded with fury and clawed one of his eyes out
while ﬁring away the most superlative and highly descriptive expletives which adorn the Tamil language; this gave
the one-eyed husband two causes to sue her back, one for
assault and the other for trying to con him into believing the

numbering twice thirty-two ; if only they had red horns and
a mouth belching ﬁre they could qualify as Lucifer’s
lieutenants.
Well, this hi-dome,on seeing that I was in trouble, rubbed
his hands in glee, knowing he had landed a sucker.

child was his, for now the woman, having Spent all her energy

no longer insisted the child was his and was further unable
to name the probable husband. This was related 1n great
detail by my two friends until my ears were Singing and I
was forced to beg them to stop and drink their teas.

Startled

around to look at me. The newcomer was dressed in
lawyer’s clothes; white pants and a black coat and looked
oﬂicious. He looked down solemnly at me with his specta.
cles on his nose, and his eyes above it.
‘Well, young man, what do you want ‘2 ’ I asked him and
go.
gave him the form expecting him to sign it so thatIcould
unctuan
.111
said
then
and
down
upside
it
over
He looked
he
ous tone, ‘You know courts involve expenditure’ and
looked hungrily at 'me. Hi-dorne’s mouth was. ﬂattering;
both of them were ready to clean up the shop. I am very

of a twig and shouting tiger ﬁred at every single moving

object until the exasperated mahout was forced to knock our
knight of the garter on the head to prevent him from shooting himself in his excitement. Anything remotely smelling
of the law increases my pulse rate and this specimen reminded me of some vague character I had come across in one
of those ‘Inspector goes West, East, North or South’
stories.

I am sorry I have strayed. This is a common failing
of most writers. After all, how else can you ﬁll up
600 pages—you have a character in mind, his character
unfolds, and then rather belatedly you think of his aunt
and then of her lover dead since 10 years, whose feet she
hears treading the path outside her window even today
and there are policemen, a clan depicted as nincom—
poops and good-natured idiots and various characters
and poor relations who drop by once in a way to speak
something inane and get bashed up by the villains
for their pains. These villains of course, are large,
massive and ugly, with long deep scars running all

‘You want to see somebody, Sir?’, he asked.

by this unexpected cordiality I told him I wanted to see
a ﬁrstvclass magistrate. He pursed his lips in surprise and
clucked sympathetically. He looked so sad that I wanted
to pat him on the head and give him a feeding bottle.
‘ Well, you see, sir, that’s impossible. Before you see the

ﬁrst~class magistrate, you have to go through the doorman,
the clerk, the local lawyer, the P. A. and ﬁnally, if you
have survived these obstacles, you come to the great man
himself.’
Meeting god would be easier, I thought. It was now my
20

‘ About the magistrate’, I began, and my friends turned

His sneeze broke a few cups

and saucers and caused a minor earthquake. A few tiles
slid off the roof and crashed and the irate owner grabbed a
kitchen knife and advanced menacingly towards Hi-dome.
In the general confusion I aimed a hearty kick at the other
rascal’s shin and bolted from the scene.
-—K. LAKSHMANAN.

(ZOO/w Ego/ole cpezaua
0975a.

CCBing

Tremors shook this world of ours
It happened all because of ﬂowers
That Mr. John gave to Miss Holly Penz
(P. S. Both were elephants.)

Whose words are these, I think I know
It came in a mag, some time ago,
He will not see me cogging them
And recycle them for dough.
SEVARAM SATSANGH.

CAN CAPTAIN COOK I

