saw light. There was Liqa, perched on the pillion in her
favourite pair of shorts and the inevntable T-shirt. It
wasn’t surprising that the Professor was going at top-speed,
for Liqa was shouting into his car through a mouthful of
ice-cream. The Prof. was on leave the next day. He’d
suffered a mini-nervous breakdown.
In some ways Liqa is quite a conformist. Sometimes she

PROMINENT FIGURES AND OTHER PERSONALITIES

PORTRAIT OF A PEERLESS PEGGY*
' A Small Warbie'r or varioul kind.

The IITian audience and the IITian caricaturist are two of
the most predictable of their respective species. If at
O.A.T. the former simply adores mushy songs of ﬁrst love
or lost love,

a

caricature,

the latter believes, is never

complete without the ‘ all said and done folks, he/she is one
of the nicest people you can ever meet.’ Now, Iwouldn‘t
say anything as ominous as that. Besides, with a subject
like mine, it hurts too much to say so.
It was July ‘72 when I ﬁrst met her. Walking unsuspect~
ingly down the road, I espied this funny-looking kid walking
(would you call that a walk? Well, for want of a better
word) a little ahead of me. Suddenly, she stopped. A
little monkey (busily looking at himself in a dirty puddle)
held her attention. He was facing away from us and before
I could say ‘scram, you epigram’ she

had tiptoed up,

slapped the monkey real hard and was running back with
a whole troop of monkeys chasing her.
When we ﬁnally got out of the mess, she explained
herself with ‘But how was I to KNOW his people were
around?

And it was SUCH a temptation!’

And then,

with an air of absolute dejection, ‘ And I don’t know why,
but such things keep happening to me ’ Now that I know
Liqa Raschid better, I don’t doubt that for a minute.

That’s one advantage of having perspective.
True, there’s absolutely no situation you can possibly
think of that Liqa cannot get herself/anybody else/both
into, and more often than not, get you to get her out of.
Strangely enough, sooner or later you’ll ﬁnd yourself
making ‘heavy concessions’ for her. The sanest (imagine)
of Sarayuites have at some time or the other played a part
in one of Liqa’s innumerable misadventures. If it isn’t
walking right behind her all the way from l-I.S.B. because
she has torn her pants, it’s standing next to her while
she‘s on the phone and screaming for her so she can end
that ‘ unfortunate conversation ’ with ‘ Listen, somebody’s
calling me, so bye ’ etc. Coming to think of it, I’d have
to start a serial on this subject ifI were to list all such
occasions. (I’m going to call it the Mad-Hatter’s Other
diar .
Wyhile our lives were thus affected, the guys had long
given up whistling at any girl who appeared near their
hostels, for want of breath really, since Liqa biked up and
down too often and didn’t make the scene only to vote for a
class rep. There were probably two many milk-boys going
around already. The lecturers found themselves addressmg
here as ‘ Liqa ’ instead of ‘ Miss’ the way they used to. Why.
there was this day when a grim-looking Prof. looked

grimmer than ever. As he went past on his vehicle, we

is too much of one.

In their ﬁrst year, most girls seem

Arnhettttr human
The Academic Forum is a body, comprising

to believe that if there’s any change in venue for a lecture
the guys would know about it. So all you’ve got to do is
take sometime getting out of the classroom and follow
them blindly down the corridor. It’s a plan that’s never
failed. That doesn’t deter Liqa. She can still show it’s

problems pertaining to academics only.

not fool-proof. ‘It was simple,’ she said, ‘all I did was
follow this group of guys and whenever they entered a

proposals for action
powers.

classroom, I generally stood outside.’

couldn’t stand it any longer, he walked up to her and said
‘If you wish to sit inside, you are welcome.’ ‘But the
point is,’ said Liqa, ‘where is the classroom?’ ‘Oh, I don’t

know about that,’ said the guy, shaking his head sadly,
. we’re here for a meeting of the Photographic Club.’
But all this fades in comparison with what happened
to Liqa during the strike. There was this day when after
a power-failure, the lights ﬁnally came on at Sarayu,

Liqa

‘So everything’s OK. I

guess.’ She happily presumed that this guy was responsible

for the lights coming on. Soon after he pushed off, the
lights went off too. Feeling it her duty to fetch the saviour
back, she broke into a run. The guys working at the
transformer behind Sarayu, meanwhile, saw Liqa, screaming
‘Help! Help!’ and running for all she was worth. You
know how panicky people were those days. These guys

were no exception. Sensing disaster, they ran after her
with ‘What, Who, Hey, Relax, Tell us all! ’ Now Liqa
isn’t sucha dumb kid, really. One look at them and the
transformer and she guessed right. In an effort to really get
away with it, she turned around and ran straight back.
The guys thought she was too troubled to know where she
was gomg and followed her. Now the crowd in front of
Sarayu saw a white-faced Liqa (if that is possible) followed
by a couple of guys and they glared at the guys. The guys
gave up trying to understand what was happening.

A lot of people, while agreeing that Liqa’s great fun the
way she is, have made the sad prediction that at some
stage of her life, she’ll sober down and have normal thoughtprocesses. But Ican only Visualizea lady who suddenly
dashes across the road to stare hard (and most obviously)
at the strange material of ashirt or to say ‘ Hello’ toa
baby in a pram. If you do come across such a specimen,
folks, try yelling‘ Ado, Hoo’ (which seems to me the
Singalese equivalent of ‘ Hey’ !) and if she turns around,

God bless you, you’ve met HER.

the Unique and Inimitable.

It acts

as an adviSOiy body for the Director, suggesting

and

has

no executive

On one occasion,

she stood there, I believe, for twenty whole minutes.
When the guy she’d been peering at through the window

heard a gentleman outside say

staff and student representatives, which deals
with

In its ﬁrst meeting of this semester, the Forum
discussed the following proposals :—
(l) Punishment for malpractices in examinations should be made very deterrent.
If a student is caught employing unfair
means in a periodical test, he will be debarred
from attending the course for which the said
periodical test was being held. The student will
be deemed to have failed that course.
For a similar offence in the semester examination, he will be debarred from pursuing his
studies for a year.
(2) A proper set of rules governing the postponement of periodical tests must be evolved. In the
case of a power failure, periodical may be postponed only if the failure is of more than an hour’s
duration.
(3) A student will be expelled from the Institute
if he is unable to clear the ﬁrst year in two years
on the ﬁrst two years in four years.
All class-representatives and the General
Secretary Mr. Sabhanayagam are members of
this Forum. 50, you could convey your suggestions
to them.
—Ed.

Yes, you’ve met Liqa,

V. G.
21

