Control :

Management Made Merry (For those of
You Who Plan to do the ATGSB)

This ensures that employees do not do what he
not do in ofﬁce hours. This is a most importantyssiillgleg
to managers , after all they are there to see that what they
plan not to do is not done at all even if what they plan
not to do is not what should not be done
'That’s management as merry as loan make it without
mixed metaphors.

The ﬁve main tenets of management are, or so we are led
to believe, summed up by the acrostic-cum-acronymn-cum

mnemonic (very important ATGSB words, look ’em up if
you want to be a good manager) OSCAR. Unfortunately,
only those managers who can’t manage, teach, and the
impressmn they give of the subject is understandably exag-

gerated. Here is what management is—we shall start with
OSCAR.

basket games) and line and staff play the Numbers Game (they
call it Gambling). Co-ordination is very important, if you
are not careful you might ﬁnd yourself left alone at the East

end of the bridge table with North, South and West missmg
when the chairman walks in unexpectedly.
This comprises in possessing the right to get your sub-

sation can tick and cuckoo it must have its AIMS and
OBJECTIVES clearly deﬁned. These usually consist of
ensuring that the chairman, his son, his wife and mother-in-

mate and so on till the cabin boy kicks the ship’s eat if one

law are happy.

such feline is fortunately available, to say nothing of what
the cat does to the ship’s mice and rats.

cuckoo every hour like a cuckoo-clock.

Before an organi-

Happiness is not difﬁcult to deﬁne, espe-

cially at that level, papa chairman wants cigars to chew,
son chairman wants to play ice hockey at Harvard and sow
his wild oats at Radcliﬁ'e, mama and mama-in-law chairman
(not char woman please !) want hundreds of trappers hunt-

ing for sable and mink to keep them warm in winter in
spite of central heating, electric furnaces and holidays in
Bermuda.
Specialisation
The S in OSCAR—this means knowing everything of
nothing and nothing of everything. The more you know of
nothing, the less the chance of you being asked to work on

anything else. This is the guiding principle of most modern
managements and it took F. W. Taylor to realize it It is
also the most diﬂicult principle to pick up and it costs
anywhere upto $6,500 to ﬁnd out at the Harvard Business
School.
A good manager-cum-specialist never has to do anything
except when something turns up in his ﬁeld , and if he is
any good then his ﬁeld will be something in which nothing
turns up. So a good specialist ends up doing nothing. just
what he has been trained to do. There is one snag though—
getting jobs—he must convince his employer that there is
enough of nothing going around.
Co-ordination
Why the ‘ C ’ comes after the ‘ S ’ in OSCAR probably
shows that managers forget their alphabets easily in business
school, what with Greek and

Latin and numerals in Hindu

Arabic and Roman—anyhow CO-ORDINATION comes
third and it is essentially the art of playing poker during ofﬁce
hours while top management play bridge (they call it in-

22

GANGAN PRATHAP,
B. Tee/1., 1974.

Authority
ordinates to buy you coffee. The higher your authority
the more people you can get to buy you coffee and the
further the distance you can get them to walk to KnickKnack and back with larger ﬂasks of the decoction.
Authority ﬁlters downwards like gravity, the ship’s
captain takes it out on the ofﬁcer, the ofﬁcer on the ﬁrst

Organisation
This is what makes the management tick every second and

If you can get the hang of it may

be you Will make a good manager. If you can’t do not
'(l’isanTGlSlgs not] lost ashyou can still try the ’ATGSB.
e
wee s outt e ood ma
'
the rest to the business schoolsg.
terial and sends only

Responsibility :
The right to say ‘It’s not my fault’ The higher your
responsibility, the more often you have to say ‘ It’s not
my fault ’ Responsibility is indispensable in any organisation. Without clearly deﬁned responsibility, everybody will
be making mistakes; now at least nobody makes mistakes
that anybody knows about.
Besides OSCAR there is a thing or two you ought to
know if you want to be a superior manager. OSCAR is
enough for those managers whose intellectual pretenSions
and memory space stops at the Hollywood level. One of
them is :

CHESS
'Said Dr. Tarrasch. ‘I have always a slight feeling of
pity for the man who has no knowledge of chess, just as
I’d pity the man who has remained ignorant of love’
Chess pieces obviously have knowledge of chess.’ They are
not bad at the art of love either'

(a) Sle, 5Ppp, 8 8

2Q3 pl, 8, 8, b6K. ‘Mate’ in 3. Try this and see him}
lustfully the Queen goes

after the Bishop.

‘The Love

Chase’ is one of the Sam Lloyd Classics.

(b) 3k4, 8,

2P1P3, 8, 7p, p1plp2P, PlPlP2P, blKS. W to play and
Win. Here it is the King who reCiprocates the Bishop’s
love! (Death in Venice) :lel, Bb2; 2Ke1, Bcl , 3Kfl

Bd2 , 4Kg2! Bel , 5Kg1 ! (and now the King takes over)
Bd2, 6Kf1, Bcl , 7Kel, Bb2; 8Kdl, Bal; 9Kc1, BbZCh'

lOKbl (c) lknB4, 8, 7p, 4R3, 7K, 8, 3r4, 7B. Wto piay’
and Win. In this study by A. A. Troitski the Rook
chases, and eventually corners, the King. Into the solving

of this a frightening amount of time can be sunk.
Span of Control :
This represents the greatest disrance you can get between

the tip of your thumb and the tip of the little ﬁnger (both
must belong to the same hand of course). The world record
is 15 ins. (38.15 cm. for the metric enthusiast) held by a
certain manager—understandably he wishes to remain
anonymous—he dislocated his thumb in the process of
setting up the world record—now he has ﬁve ﬁngers on his
right hand and no thumb in apposition to it and ﬁnds it
somewhat diﬂicult to eat extra large sandwiches.
The greater the span of control of your managers, the
thicker the ﬁles they can carry and that helps save on ﬁling
costs.
Motivation:

Is what’s given to you for doing what you are not
supposed to do—its called acting beyond the call of
duty.

Whenever RaVisekhar (National Junior Champ) met me
he never failed to enquire about two IITians, Prabhakar
and Kaleem. In his famous game (Staff Club Tourney,
January. ’73) Kaleem had 2 knights against 2 knights

plus 2 pawns of Ravisekhar.

Kaleem’s knights wonderfully

manoeuvered and sacrificed their lives for those 2 pawns.
His monarch was saved. for two knights can’t mate a
King. We have lost an ever-smiling chess enthUsiast.
Bertram : An interesting ending is given below:
Round No. 5. W' G. Sreekumar (IIT) Bl P. B. C. Sekar.
8, 1K5p, PR4pl, 4kp2, Plrlp3, 8,8,8. lPa7, RxP ' 2 Ra6,
RXR, 3K><R, Kf4; 4Pa8=Q, Kf3; 5Qb7, Pf4; 6Q» P(h7),
P33; 7Qh3ch, KfZ; 8Qh4ch, Kf3; 9Qg5, Pe2; lOlePg5 ,
11ka and won.
K. AIYASWAMY

(Solutions on page l3)

