.2

CAMPASTIMES

ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF TRIVIALITY
'In common parlance it has been tacitly
conceded that what is not gorgeous or high~
sounding can be neglected. The profound
truth embodied in the statement that triﬂes
constitute perfection and perfection is no
triﬂe is being felt more so now when we are
apt to be overwhelmed by the strides of science
and technology. It is worthwhile remembering that the complex human personality

is composed of various elements, high and
low, united into a harmonious entity which
it is supposed to be.
Nature round us abounds with countless
irresistible curiosities which could evoke immense joy and tranquillity if only we cared
to. The laws of universal gravitation
propounded by Newton were the natural
concomitants of Newton’s keen interest in the
commonplace and the trivial—the sight of
an apple falling was the spark that revolutionised conventional scientiﬁc ideas. History repeats itself and who knows if the
trivialities of today may not be a startingpoint of future inventions? Leaving scientiﬁc
innovations apart which are the accepted

harbingers of our material well-being let us
see triviality in action in our everyday life.
Politeness and good manners which are

[August 15th. I962

Reﬂections on Independence—(Cantd.)
obstacles and hardships have consummated in
the dawn of this new day. It is, therefore,
meet and proper that we genuinely salute
on this occasion our national heroes and

heroines who pioneered for a glorious future
and endured untold privations that we may
live and ﬂourish as a free people in the

comity of nations.

The creative pages of our

freedom struggle merely indicate their supreme

loyalty to the land of their birth and the
undying hope they cherished for many
generations yet unborn. Let us make ourselves
worthy of this great heritage. As Abraham
Lincoln exhorted, “The brave men, living
and dead, who struggled here have consecrated it far above our poor power to add

or detract. The world will little note nor
long remember what we say here, but it
can never forget what they did here.

It is

for us the living rather to be dedicated
here to the unﬁnished work which they who
fought here have thus far so nobly advanced.
It is rather for us to be here dedicated to
the great task remaining before us—that
from these honoured dead we take increased

devotion to that cause for which they gave
the last full measure of devotion—that we
here highly resolve that these dead shall not
have died in vain, that this nation under
God shall have a new birth of freedom.”

more conspicuous by their glaring absence
constitute the basic qualities of a true gentle-

When we started on our life as a free
people ﬁfteen years ago, we were at once up

man. Why reserve our best smiles and
thanks to outsiders when we can make the

against Himalayan problems.

people around us happier by being kind and

courteous? The tendency to ridicule, bypass
and summarily reject others’ opinions and
ideas is an exempliﬁcation of the death—knell

Our country

was partitioned. Millions of our people who
were until recently part and parcel of undivided India were forced to leave us to form a
separate nation by themselves. Our land
(Kashmir) was invaded. Countless millions

being undertaken.
Hydro-eletric schemes
and power-production have been attempted
on an unprecedented scale all over India.
Both in the public and private sector, old
industries with new vigour and new industries

with poineering energy are steadily increasing
our economic output. The three Five—Year
Plans are progressively changing the face of the
entire country with work and employment to
tens of thousands of people. The various
land reforms and progressive land-policies
tend to make the tillers of the soil the
eventual owners of the land. The new spirit
of social reform has given a devastating blow
to the age-old caste system and many other
meaningless social growth and customs.

Although food production has been stepped
up, self-suﬁ‘iciency is yet to be achieved. The
working classes and trade unions have begun

to take an active part not only in the politics
of the country, but also in the welfare of the
working classes in general. The multifarious
cooperative efforts in different fields of life are
primarily aimed at improving the lot of the

common man. The various housing schemes,
health and community projects, rural uplift
undertakings, educational and technical ad—

vances are bound to result in the betterment
of the masses as a whole, though it is an
uphill task and will take a long process. The
agricultural classes have gained a great deal of
self-conﬁdence and self-respect. The esta—

blishment of Rural Institutes of Technology in
different parts of the country has given the

long needed direction to our educational setup. In the international ﬁeld, our ceaseless
efforts for peace have won for us an honoured
place among the family of nations.
On this day, let us remind ourselves that
we are free and equal citizens of a great

which tolls the neglect of triviality. “Do
you know” asks Emerson, “the secret of

from the West Punjab and East Bengalwere uprooted from their ancient homes and forced to

the true scholar? In every man there

Republic. We should consider ourselves
more fortunate when compared with the

seek shelter and refuge inother parts of India.
The refugee problems, to put it mildly, taxed

thousands of our countrymen who never had

is

something wherein I may learn of him;
and in that I am his pupil.”
Modern psychology has more than often
revealed that many mental and emotional

nucleus of a malady which manifests itself
only too late. The reason for all this lies in

our ﬁnancial and economic position almost to
a breaking point. Our administrative machi—
nery, at least for a time, was brought to a
stand-still owing to the sudden departure of
expert and able hands. The Father of the
nation, the hand that rocked the cradle and
guided the destinies of our people for over a
quarter of a century and welded them to—
gether as a common human fam y, was

the esoteric fact that human nature being
what it is, even trivialities form an essential

suddenly removed by the cruel hand of death
when we needed him most. We possessed no

piece de resistance.
The beauties of nature as manifested in
tiny ﬂowers for example were the source of
inspiration of some of the world’s un-

constitution to suit our independent status.

illnesses can be traced to a triviality which
on constant neglect has assumed monstrous
proportions. Some small seemingly-trivial
incident in one’s childhood may be the

surpassed literary exemplars, Wordsworth’s

Daffodils is an illustration. The great mental
tranquillity and happiness we can all derive

Our leaders who had made very great sacriﬁces for the cause of freedom were utterly
new to the art of ruling and administration.
We were beset by innumerable internal problems, and our friends abroad were not

altogether dependable. The steady increase in

from simple commonplace events have to
be experienced to judge their importance.
It is not an exaggeration to aver that our

population without a proportionate increase in
food supply, has been more of a liability

personality and life stand to gain immensely
if only we remember that little things do

or the other began to shake us to our foundations.

than an aSSet.

Social convulsions of one type

not necessarily constitute a little mind.
Today, the picture has slowly changed. We
V. RANGANATHAN,

THE SUNSET
See there the glowing west,
Red and bright, a charming sight;
The bird darts toward the nest
Wings silver in the golden light.

The wind boos high in the sky
The trees nod with drooping heads

The clouds sail and the birds fly.
And the sea’s tides bellow and cry.

A red hue on the mountainside
A white tinge on the green earth
A signal for Dame Night to come
For worries to go and bliss to dawn.
S. VIJAYA RAGHAVAN.

a chance in life. Therefore, our responsi—
bility for the realization of good life and our

obligation to our fellow countrymen and
women are greater. On this memorable
day, let us ﬁrmly resolve that we shall sink
or swim together. It is high time that we
close our ranks, eliminating thereby all

fissiparous tendencies that eat into the Vitals
of our national life.

Leadership rests largely

with educated Indians. May they be ﬁlled
with a sense of dedication.
In a great institution such as the I.I.T.,
potentialities and possibilities ahead of us

are beyond our present comprehension.
Reﬂection may be an uncommon product
among scientists and technologists. But the
light of science combined with a social vision
alone can pave the way for an integrated
personality and an integrated nation. Science
and technology divorced from ethical and
human considerations may develop into a
monster such as the atom bomb. Without
modern achievements in medicine, surgery,
science and technology, life may be a pool

of stagnation.

have systematically and methodically solved
Therefore,

our primary and immediate

the refugee problem, rehabilitating most of
them as respectable citizens. Our armed
forces rose to the occasion and put an end to
aggression in Kashmir. The reorganization
of the states under the iron hand of Patel is

we may be placed and whatever our hands

one of our monumental achievements. The age
old Zamindari system has been abolished.

a high standard

The three General Elections under our new
constitution have taken politics to the doors of

the common man. We have been given a
stable constitution combining best features of

concern is to stand by our posts, wherever
ﬁnd to do, and discharge our duties to the
best of our ability. As teachers and students,
let us exert our utmost and best and set up
in

our

studies,

conduct,

duties and social relationship. Let us march
forward as disciplined soldiers to face life’s
. tasks and contribute our mite to the common

good.

Let us conduct ourselves with dignity

the American and British systems. Parliamentary democracy has been the order of the day
both in the centre and in the provinces. The
very psychology of the people and Government
has considerably changed for the better.
Socialistic pattern of society has been stated
to be our ultimate goal in economics, politics
and social affairs. The idea of a welfare state

and honour beﬁtting a free people. Freedom
loses its meaning if it does not go hand in

has come to stay. We have become a great

ranks, and service for all those in need,
cherishing the great ideals of our past and

force for peace
Sheela as our
policy.

in the world with Panzha
national and international

Our achievements in moral and material
ﬁelds are equally great. Many irrigation
dams have been completed and new ones are

hand with discipline. The greatness of
India rests solely with her sons and
daughters. It is our great privilege to
labour ceaselessly for the advancement of
life in all its aspects. With malice towards

none and charity for all, with unity in our
pressing forward towards a glorious future,
let us march forward to make our freedom
meaningful in terms of peace, plenty,

prosperity, and progress to achieve which we
had struggled for freedom and to realize and
maintain which no sacriﬁce is too great.

