A-ugust' ISth, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

PERSONALITIES

TOWARDS
INDEPENDENCE

SOME RECENT
RESEARCH

. . . In December 194.5 Wavell speaking in

V.S.

Calcutta, appealed to the Indian People to

avoid strife and violence when they stood ‘at
the gate of political and economic opportu-

nity.’
Gandhi was in Calcutta too . .
The same day, Jinnah made a statement
in Bombay. ‘We could settle the Indian
problem in ten minutes,’ he declared, ‘if

Mr. Gandhi would say, “ I agree

there

He swaggered into

the class, an orange knapsack slung carelessly
over his shoulder (Incidentally we never saw
that knapsack again) while

we were still

recuperating from the shock, he lounged over
to the black board and started writing alternately with both hands, sensation l whisper in
the class‘ killer boy type I say P ’

number of investigations into such diverse

unique.

A lively atmosphere prevails and it

is for this informal attitude that he is liked
the most. If you happen to walk down the
ﬁrst ﬂoor corridor and hear a curious noise

coming from the Fuels Lab, you will almost
certainly ﬁnd on investigation that it is Seshadri singing. Stiﬂ‘necked conventionality not
being his strong point, he sees no harm'in it.
Factories abroad, he defends, have radioes
installed. Yet punctuality (which is scarcely
compatible with his other ways) is one thing
he insists upon, though in a mild way.

His interests are not conﬁned to teaching.
He plays football for the staff team.

that people were wedded to non-violence . . .”
he said.

. . . Mountbatten told the Royal Empire

(His tac-

tics mainly being to bulldoze his way through
the opposition). He is the driving force behind

Gandhi “ was not compared with some great
statesman like Roosevelt or Churchill.

They

classiﬁed him simply in their minds with
Mohammed and with Christ ”. . .
Gandhi in Calcutta ﬁghting riots.

He fasted

all day and prayed. He issued no message
to the nation . . . ‘There is disturbance
within’, he wrote to Rajkumari Amrit Kaur
the next day: In the midst of festivities, he
was sad. . .
. . . ‘ You must not lose faith in humanity,’
he wrote Amrit Kaur on August 29,
‘Humanity is an ocean. If a few drops of

the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.’
He had kept his faith in man. He has
kept his faith in God. He had therefore
his faith in himself. “ I am a born ﬁghter
who does not know failure," he assured a
prayer meeting audience. . .

. . . He had gone to Calcutta and been

technically

taken into a Muslim house in an area where
the stones were slippery with fresh blood

knocked out, although in my opinion that’s
what it will be) club. Slogan : Set a precedent

and the air acrid with the smoke of burning

for the coming generation.

house belonged were friendly to him.

the

Tech—out

(Not

meaning

Essentially it’s a

club dealing with outdoor activities, which
incidentally have been singularly dormant for
quite some time. Rock climbing enthusiastical, 1y taken up for a couple of days and a dismal
trip to Ennore beach comprised the sum total

of the activities for last year.
One day he showed us some coloured
slides of his daredevil trip down the Colorado

homes.

The Moslem family, to whom the

“ For

the moment I am no enemy” he wrote Amrit
Kaur.

The bereaved came 'to him in the lowly
house and he wiped their tears. He found
solace in the balm he gave others. He had
discovered his new task. It was his old task
to assuage pain, to spread love, to make all

asked what he would do if he were to
suddenly learn that he was to die at sunset

thrilling and more than once Dame Luck

that day.
He said, “ I would ﬁnish hoeing my garden.”
Gandhi continued to hoe the garden in

moment’ with him around.

will strike its legs and it will go wither the ,
wagon goes, and will pull it involuntarily.
voice

will not be heard for some time drowning

the din made by the concrete mixing machines
at the Science and Humanities Block. The Professor is representing India in the

2

have resulted in a series of papers. A brief
résumé of the titles and a layman’s explana-

tion of each follows. To indicate the calibre
of the papers presented the bibliographies
cited are also included together with information to facilitate the process of reference

in the I.I.T. library.
I. “An investigation into the stability of
hot viscous organic ﬂuids with particular
reference to the problem of Random overﬂow
from constraining vessels.”
This is an interesting investigation on the
problem of Rasam, Sambar, etc., falling on
to the table cloth and laps of the diners.
The analysis (incorporating stochastic i.e.
Random processes) arrives at certain conclusions. The theory predicts (and is conﬁrmed
by experiment) that excessive overﬂow (or
spilling) will occur whenever the vessel is
violently agitated either by hand or by a

spoon. The problem in aggravated by using
the same spoon for different liquids and for
solids such as dry curry.
2. “ Anomalous behaviour of magniﬁcation
factors

in the Quantum ﬂow

of water."

This timely paper deals with the apparent
anomaly between theory and practice in the
problem of determining the quantity of water

in a tank or tanks. By introducing such
variables as the make of the slide rule used
in calculations and varying systems of
rounding off (eg. 1400 as 2000) the paper
satisfactorily explains, but suggests no solution, to the so called ‘water problem.’

3. “The Generation of noise with stereophonic effects due to moving loads on plates.”
Though this paper does'not strictly come

under Nutrition it is interesting. It deals
with the creaking of cots. By extensive
mathematical manipulation, the conclusion,
that the problem is unsolvable, is reached.
However, by introducing certain approximations, the author, who remains anonymous,

suggests that periodic changes might reduce
the average amplitude of the noises.

To facilitate reference the headings under
which the books can be found in the I.I.T.

library is included.
I. (a) Hydrodynamic and Hydromagnetic
Stability by S. Chandrashekar.
of Dams” and “Problems in Indian
Economics ”.)
(b) “ Hypersonic ﬂow "——French (Under
German Gift and in between GRIMMS
FAIRY TALES and Mein Kampf).

(c “Stochastic Model etc.” by S. K.
Srinivasan (ANNUAL NUMBER—I.I.T.
Science and Engineering section—OUT OF

But, in spite of this limited freedom, it is
free to pull the wagon, or be dragged along
with it. The same is true of man.

—Lao TOLSTOY.

PRINT).
2. Flow through Pipes (under REFERENCE—now lost).
\

World

University Service Conference held at Tokyo.
He was seen off at the airport and profusely
garlanded by the English staff, his old boys
of Pachaiappa’s (of which he had been
Principal) and his near and dear ones. Bon
voyage, Professor 1

ﬁelds as ﬂuid stability, plantation biology etc.

(Under ELEC. ENG. in between “Design

He continued to hoe.

A horse that is hitched with others to a
wagon is not free to walk in front of the
wagon; and if it will not draw, the wagon

The G.O.M. and the Japs

Prof. R. Krishnamurti’s booming

which he had worked all his days. Sinners
had thrown stones and ﬁlth into the garden.
LOUIS FISCHER.

LATE NEWS

A

BIBLIOGRAPHIES
St Francis of Assisi, hoeing his garden, was

rubber dinghy. The photography was excellent. His experiences seem to have been

To quote Peter Cheyney ‘Never a dull

nology and Applied Nutrition Research.’

men brothers.

River ﬂanked by the Grand Canyon in a

played an important role.
His academic qualiﬁcations speak for themselves and he has been instrumental in the
construction of the Fuels Lab.

‘ The Department of Catering Tech-

Society on October 6th 194.8, that in India

. . . Independence Day, August 15, found

Popularly known as ‘ Tough guy’ he lends
that carefree air to the lecture which is so

into

boundaries constitute the Pakistan State.” ’
But Gandhi could not say that and did

architect of independence. The father of
his country was disappointed with his
country. “ I deceived myself into the belief

Seshadri that colourful personality made his

of the new mess

department came

being.

appointing fourteen Indians to posts in that
government.
. . . Independence brought sadness to the

debut on a jaunty note.

With the instalment
committee a new

should be a Pakistan; I agree that one
fourth of India . . . . with their present

not say it; he regarded the vive section of
India as ‘ blasphemy ’.
. . . On June 16th Lord Wavell announced
that Congress and the Muslim League had
failed to agree on the composition of a provisional government and he was therefore

DR. C. SESHADRI

Most new research organisations are started
with a lot of fanfare and publicity. However, it is refreshing to report of one' which
was established so quietly that nobody will
know of it until he reads this.

After all my boasted independence curst
necessity compels me to implore you for
ﬁve pounds . . . . . . .. Do for God’s Sake,
send me that sum, and that by return of
post. . . .forgive, forgive me 1

—Letter to GEORGE THOMSON.

3. STEREO systems (under CIVIL ENG.
next “Transistor Physics ” and “ Chemical
Kinetics”).

This is just a sample of the wealth of
material available in the papers published by

this excellent organisation.

