CAMPASTIME-S"

[August IIS'th. I962

LETTERTO THE EDITOR

NEWS AND VIEWS

DEAR SHOT-PUTTER,

SURJIT RANDHAVA
Last Saturday night I cycled peacefully
down from the main gates to the Hostel. At
the branch—off I decided to take the older road.
At the island, however, I went slam into some-

SHE AND YOU
Campastimes was born on Thursday
August 3 1962. She has come into this

world and hopes to become very much a
part

of the

life

of

Iitania.

The

Iitan

will give her a very short time, maybe two
or three months (since at present it is a
monthly) or may be a little charitable and

and do? Choose a title by stealing words
from some poor pencil-chewing hard thinking

Got

contributor and merely recombining them.

up, gathered my things and went and had a

Just because I was outvoiced at that Committee meeting it doesn’t mean I can’t bawl

thing and sailed merrily off my bicycle.

EDITORIAL

Dozens and dozens of nice names were suggested for our Bulletin. And what do we go

look what it was all about. A sign-post saying
‘ Road out of Order’ I A sample of what hap—
pened to Bawa and Mahesh when they along
with their scooter went into a ditch dug across
the main road.
Talking about sign-boards, have you seen

my head off on this page.

Yours etc;,

the one at the island P A visitor told me that
if he followed the directions to the Hostel
properly he’d have to go up the clump of hamboos growing just behind.

.

Anyway, I don’t deny the fact that it was
an ingenious and shrewd scheme. This way
nobody gets the prize, thus saving our funds
from an economic collapse. Right P
SURle RANDBAVA.

Too late to put those wise who took the wrong

V

Dr. Khosla through laboratories and workshops.

as her cirtics may be, the other Iitan is

Tennis in our Institute started a few
weeks back with a big bang. A whole lot of
boys wearing all “sorts of coloured clothes

bound to defend her.

reached the courts at 3 p.111.

many people left to receive him, but it seems
the credit goes to Mr. Dubay for having

predict a slow death for her.

Uncharitable
,

She is deﬁnitely not going to be hasty,
but she would like to be more juvenile than
infantile (regardless of her birth), for she
does have to cater to Student tastes. She
would not like it to be a poor version of any
current literary or a degenerate Student’s
rag.

She’d rather strike a balance between

the two with intentions towards the latter.
She is wise, very wise for her few days
and already knows what is iri store for her.
The unavailability of articles (though she has
come out with an issue in a fortnight). Stuff
like ‘ O Kashmir, you most beautiful. . . .’ ;

geographical descricptions of towns and distant (and some-times not so very distant)
lands and similar trivia etc. etc. etc. She
may have to

sift out (or is it seive on a

mesh) the relevant and appropriate from the
agglomeration—the seived material so small

in quantity that her Editors shoulder the
burden of writing and bringing out regular

The balls were

brought an hour later. I was told they wanted
to decide as to who would play on which court.

Incidentally, Bawa has ﬁnally got his scooter
tyre repaired. It took him roughly a month to.
get this done. Anyway, now he‘ll once again
become a useful inmate of the Cauvery Hostel.

Mahesh who had caused quite a stir in the
Institute with that differential-less contraption
of his—The Go-‘Kart, seems to have lost all
enthusiasm for it and has gone back to his
Vespa. It is alleged that he was rather perturbed about ﬂames a metre long shooting out

of the exhaust every time he went over twenty.

Debate

30th August
6th September . .

Quiz Programme.
Group Discussion.

13th September ..

Talk by Prof. Krishna-

murthy on ‘My Impressions of Japan.’

(Topics to be announced separately)
For announcements on the activities of the
various sections of Institute Gymkhana, please

contact the Editor of ‘ Campastimes ’.

TRAVELLING LIGHT

fresh plate of sandwiches. Rumours saying
that these were the leftovers of the previous
party, have to be rejected as libellous.

Moral: Never be in a hurry to meet a
guest.

Let him come up to you.

In planning and constructing the Science
and Humanities Block—affectionately called
the ‘ScH ’»—the authorities have taken pains
to instal ultra-modern devices whose beneﬁts

with which the lecture halls of ScH have been
equipped, is ‘Antivox ’. Trial runs of the

and Director of the National Institute of
Sciences of India would be visiting the IIT on ‘
the fourth morning.

approached him and requested him to visit
the Institute the following morning.
Came the fourth morning. Sharply at nine,

I 5th August

people by producing somehow or other a

On August 2, 1962, all the professors of
our Institute were informed that Dr. A. N.
Khosla, Member of the Planning Commission

are aware of her needs.

:LITERARY ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE
Programme upto 13th September:—-

brought the situation under control.
The day, however, was saved by the canteen

are already experienced by students i and

Subsequently on the third, Dr. M. V. C.
Sastry was at the airport to receive the

'Editors appeal to her readers to ligthen
their task in this matter. Criticisms and
complaints-are welcome when they are cons
tructiVe. Letters, too, are welcome as long
as they are substantial, humorous not merely
funny. ' In any cage let us not have witty
comments and complaints from those who
would not try to improve Compastimes.

There were not

After about a week’s running parts had started
falling off. Comes out of making things at home.

issues. The over burden of work may tend
to delay in Publishing, but Campastimes is
indignant and has already stated in clear
terms that she is one of those freaks who
would like to be published every month at
least. She .hopes having read so much of
this ‘not so much triviality’ her readers
On her behalf the

As luck would have it, a few minutes later
the real Dr. Khosla arrived.

important visitor. Dr. A. N. Khosla being a
Governor Designate, the Raj Bhavan car was

already there waiting for him. As soon as an ‘
important looking person got 01f the plane and

teachers~What a treat ! One such, device

ﬁrst unit have made suCh a hit, that a second
unit was speedily dragged across the hills
around SCH and set in operation.
‘Antivox’ successfully drowns " human
voices, especially wrong answers, witty remarks
and snores of slightly absent-minded backbenchers, thus creating the stimulating atmos-

phere of the good old silent screen.’
‘ Antivox’ may also be used as a concretemixer.
TRANSPORT PROBLEM
Various methods have been suggested to

moved towards the waiting car, Dr. Sastry

a big car drew up and out stepped a impressive

looking gentleman dressed in khadi.

He was

immediately taken to the Director’s ofﬁce, and

Mr. Ramaswamy proceeded to explain the
layout of the Institute. Slightly raised brows
could be observed when the distinguished
guest wanted to know when the Institute was
actually started. But an explanation was soon
found: He wanted to test the professors’
memory. Brows, however, were raised to their
maximum extent when he showed a stern
disinclination to visit the workshops. Even

Dr. Kraus’ cajoling ‘ But they are very nice
and the machines are very modern’ aroused
next to no enthusiasm in Dr. Khosla who
would rather visit the hostels.

During tea—or should we say: lingering
over a glass of fruit juiceP—Prof. Sampath
- disturbed by misgivings cautiously began to
tap Dr. Khosla’s secretary, and the information

tide over the transport problem that has
harried the campus from its earliest days. It'
is proposed to have a running race for the
students rushing out for their week-end.
Every Saturday at I p. m. after lunch all the
boys leaving the campus for the city will
gather near

the

Taramani

Gate.

The

Guindy Road will start exactly at I o'clock
and all are expected to join.
To solve further the transport problem
Dr. Klein is expected to add a trailer to his
lorry. At present only ten persons can be
accommodated in. the lorry. He, as most
others. is often heard to complain about our
corrugated roads, which—~as rumour has it—

have been constructed to last for two years.
As the roads may be soon rendered unusable
by and for vehicles with wheels, we hope

the

German

Government will send us

several hovercraft.
Idea of the Month:

How about a Juke

he eventually received, caused a near furore:
‘ Dr. A. N. Khosla ” was actually Shri Mehdi

Box in the Canteen P

Nawaz Jung, Governor of Gujerat and
Chairman of the Central Lali’t Kala Academi.

to him any ideas, views and bits of. news that
they may like to see in this column.

P.S.——The author invites readers to pass on

(with apologies to Cliﬁ' Richards)
He puts them on, those killer looks,

This is it—by gum ; of all the ﬂukes.
, Leather jacket and pipes to drain,
_ He just can wait, he goes by train I
Toothbrush ‘ n ’ comb, he will not haul,
They’re a bit too heavy after all.
. By love engulfed hi‘s heart’s agleam,

But his pocket’s empty with all those
dreams.
, And when he comes with grit and grime,
The living light from the door does shine ;

||T CO-OPERATIVE STORES
BUMPER SALE
‘
Rs 32 each '

Aristo Studio Slide Rules
(Exempt from Duty)

Staed tier Drawing Boxes

-—

Rs 22 each,

(Exempt from Duty)‘

, ‘ I’ve got another ’, she bawls and screams,

‘ so bye for now, you goddamned Steve
..
Reeves I ’
V. S.

2

Kilometres Race to the Main Gate on the

Heavy rush _. . _. Book your orders now

»

