August I5th, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

NIRMALA—(Continuedfrom page I)

this strange behaviour of his beloved.

He

could not understand the reason for er weep-

ing today.
Gently Sekar wiped the tears off Nirmala’s
face and gazed gently into her loving eyes.
Nirmala gathered courage and in a determined
manner she said, ‘ You will have to forget

me l’ ‘What ! What did you say? To forget
you after having loved you for so many years.
To erase from memory the sweet face that I
have

adored.

Impossible ! Impossible,’ he

said as he plucked a rose from a nearby bush

I lI

and placed it on her head. He was about
to begin an oratory on her beautiful form
when she said ‘ Stop ! ’ She could not con-

Hill

tinue further. Her charming face was clouded
with the sorrow of some unforeseen circumstanCe. In the midst of sobs, she said ‘I
am betrothed ’. She could utter nothing
more. And though she stated into the

thoughtful eyes of Sekar, she was not seeing
him.

Her mind was a complete blank.

As Sekar gently stroked the lovely form
of his dearest, she continued. Her head was
bent and her eyes were ﬁxed on some
scattered ﬂowers on the ground. She said

‘ You hurt me! Its true that I loved you

Sekar understood her, he could think of none
else as his friend. So sweet: was her form!
So melodious was her voice” So enchanting

was her smile.
Nirmala was the only daughter ofawell—to~do
Zamindar but neither wealth nor position had
made her proud. Her illustrious education
at the University had not in anyway com-

pelled her to follow a modern and fashionable way of life. Simplicity was her forte and
in it, she seemed to blossom like a rose. Her
calm and simple virtues adorned her far more

than the artiﬁcial and lustrous

forms of

jewellery.

Sekar had met her in one of the dissection
classes. He remembered how he had scoffed
her for holding the scissors in that awkward
manner and how he had helped her in her
ﬁrst dissection. Thus the past seemed to
come before him and incite his imagination.
As he sat there, thus musing, there was a

sudden rustle of leaves and from among the
parting of tiny bushes emerged Nirmala for
whom he had waited so long. She was robed

in a beautiful attire and as she came towards
him, he felt as if it was the dawn of a new

age. He sat there gazing into those lovely
eyes which had enthralled his imagination.
‘ Nirmala! Why are you so late P Do you

know how long I have been waiting for you?
Like a thirsty traveller . . . . ’ began Sekar
in his poetical manner.

‘ Enough ! Enough !’ she said, interrupting
the intellectual imagination of Sekar. Sekar
was surprised to hear this. His words
seemed to have no effect on Nirmala. She
was staring into the beautiful roses blooming
in the wilderness. She tried to force a smile,
but her lips seemed to be glued together.

Without reserve. Its true that I had you as
my supreme lord, but now alas I clearest! I
must! I must leave you! You alone have
been my true love, but circumstances have
forced otherwise. Today, I leave you, never
to see you again, never to live again in the

castle of my hopes, never to see your happy
face again, never to hear your sweet words
again. Fate has thrown you and me far

apart but even in that far away distance, it’s
you who will be my guide, its you who will
be my ideal. I have enjoyed every moment
of your company. Every glimpse of you has
been a source of happiness to me. It’s time
for me to part, but let us not part with
sorrow. Let not our affections be wasted.’
Choking with emotion and tears in her eyes

thn.

Sekar moved a step ahead and he placed
his arms gently on her shoulders and en—
treated her in a loving tone ‘Nirmala! Why

' are you so angry with me? Why are you weeping P What sorrow has clouded your beautiful
face P Tell me I dearest ! tell me ! ’ This soft
entreaty seemed to strike Nirmala at her
very heart.

In a moment, she was resting

on Sekar’s shoulders and all she could say
was in muﬂled sobs and he heard her indisdinctly ‘ Please forgive me !’

Thus' they

Liberty, Equality,

Fraternity—these

are

words which sprang up in the time of the
French Revolution. Oppressed by a monarch
people want to get rid of him and so we
see the revolutions.
In the twentieth century, many Asian countries were given independence by the foreign

nations that ruled them. Getting independence
is one part and maintaining it is another important part. The question facing these
nations is the nature of the government
they should set up. Should they be Demo-

cratic or Communist?
Any democratic country

cannot

be

Marxistic, that is to say, that a democratic

country cannot be and will not be socialistic,
however the leaders say they are socialistic. It
is impossible to remove the social inequalities in a democratic country. The government
of these underdeveloped nations cannot
undertake all industries into its authority.
That is, there cannot be a full public sector.

The reason is this that when the state
takes the industry from a private owner, they
have to pay remuneration to him. Previously,
the private owner had to pay tax to the
government. As soon as the government
undertakes an industry they loose the tax, as
well as they have to remunerate the owner.
This the underdeveloped nation cannot do.

To say they are socialistic, the State maintains the public sector. But when the tax,
which the private owners have to pay to the
state is more than the proﬁt which the state
gets by its nationalising why should the govern—

she said: ‘ Let us be . . . let me be a younger

ment nationalise these industries at all?

sister to you.’ She could continue no
further. Her voice failed her. Her rosy
cheeks were ﬂushed. When he looked
at her‘, there was no response. She was
silence personiﬁed and this eternal silence
seemed to mock his ideas of love and romanCe.
Though she tried to speak, her words were

fact, that as long as private sector exists the
manager—labourer inequality exists, is true.

drowned in her stiﬂing sobs. She was weeping.
To Sekar, it came as a bolt from the blue.
He had not expected it at all. All at once,

his world of imagination was shattered to
pieces. He could not believe that it was
Nirrnala who was saying these things. It was
all over for him. In that split moment of

trying circumstance, he made his decision.
He turned to her and said ‘ Adieu ! Dearest !

I cannot conspire with Fate to force decisions
from you ! May God bless you !’ He could
not restrain his tears. But with a heavy
heart, he left her. As he walked away, at

every step he turned back to have a glimpse
of the maiden who was no longer his love, of

an angel who could
depth of his feelings.

For a moment, she seemed a picture of
unshakeable resolution and a strongdetermina—

SUITABLE
GOVERNMENT FOR
UNDERDEVELOPED
NATIONS

not understand the
He thought her cruel;

he thought she was wicked to desert him,
but all the same, she seemed so divine, so
angelic to have the power of will and deter-

mination for sucha hard decision.

She had

been so near and yet so far.
There they parted, never again to enjoy
each other’s sweet company. Perhaps never to
see each other again, but all the same they

left with a hope for a better life and littered
with the reminiscences of a past that was
glorious and a future that was not to be.

Destiny made Sekar seem a fool, a mere
cog in the mighty Machine of Time and
Circumstance.

The

So long as there cannot be a full public sector ,
which is true in the case of these democrati
undeveloped nations—there does exist social

inequality. Thus the aim of these nations to
remove social inequalities cannot be achieved.
In a parliamentary system, there is another
grave danger. To be elected as a member of
a parliament or an assembly one must have
money. Even the committee of a certain
party which proposes the names of candidates
for election, proposes the names of the rich.
The reason being that the rich candidates
can purchase votes, thereby defeating his
rival. Thus the democracy reduces to
oligarchy.
.
After WOrld War I some new types of
governments came into existence in some

underdeveloped nations. For example the
Russian government. In Russia they propped
up only one class, viz., the workers or pro-

letariat at the cost of all others which they
sought to wipe out. They set up a dictatorship of the proletariat. ‘They assumed that
the interest of the state and of the people
was one and the same. The individual
must live for the state and merge himself
in the state. Therefore there cannot be a
system of inalienable individual rights.
They stood for the concentration of power
in the hands of the leader of the party.

This type of government sought to organizr:
and control the activities of the people.‘ In
countries like Russia where this type of
government called communism is followed,
the private property is completely abolished.
Thereby, the social inequality is completely

stood in each other’s arms forgetting in that
blissful moment the many cares and sorrows
of life. In that wonderful moment, Sekar

=1:

*

It was thirty

(Continued on page 6)

it

years afterwards.

In a

and Nirmala were elevated to ethereal regions

magniﬁcent Pandal, a wedding was going on.

of incessant happiness.

The blare of conches arid the lilting music
of the Nadaswaram intensiﬁed that happy

Sekar still could not understand the reason
for Nirmala’s sorrow. Until yesterday, he had

visions of a happy home. He would soon be
a ﬂourishing doctor and he had dreamt of

Nirmala as his future helpmate, in his little
dispensary. Perhaps he was foolish! Perhaps he was over-enthusiastic ! His head
reeled. He could think of no explanation for

round the sacred ﬁre. The marriage was
sum] over, and as people started going away,

beautiful bride was Sekar’s daughter. Only
Sekar and Nirmala knew that the various
ways of Divine Justice were unpredictable ! !
Practically unimaginable !! Age had withered
their youthful forms but the sweet past came

one could hear such cements as ‘ What a
lovely couple,’ ‘ What a matchless pair! ’

to their eyes once again as they saw the
happy young couple come towards them for

atmosphere.

But

A young couple was walking

none could ever imagine that the

handsome man was Nirmala's son, and the

their blessings.
I THE END.

