CAMPA’STIMES

ON NATIONAL
INTEGRATION

THE TOWER OF
WISDOM

T. V. G. KRISHNAMURTHY AND
D. B. VENKA TESVARLU

M. VENKATESWARA Rao

One of the burning problems of the day
concerning Indian life is the emotional integration of the Nation. It has to be stressed
that the problem is not a political one; but it

is of primary importance to anybody who
may call himself an Indian, whatever the
walk of life he has chosen may be. It is
not as though only the -‘ men in the chairs ’
are concerned with it. It is the duty of
every citizen or citizen-to-be to dwell over,

understand and partake in the necessary
actions or antidotes that are to be applied
to the ﬁssiparous tendencies that are prevalent
in the country.
India as had been told by many great
people, is a country with vast differences in
the ways of living, with different languages

[August |5th. I962

Once there was an extraordinary rendezvous
of four expert technologists in a renowned
part of India—One was a metallurgist from
West Germany, one a civil engineer-cumarchitect from Rome, one a mechanical
engineer from Russia and the other an Indian

chemical engineer. Their congregation had
a set purpose, namely, to construct a supra-

the zeal and genius of the original planners and
inviting the young technologists to the open
vistas of wisdom.

terrestrial monument—the most beautiful, the
most wonderful in the world. The German
metallurgist suggested that it should be a
huge tower made up in Gothic style of a

HYDRAULICS

bright and untarnishable alloy impregnated
with ground opal to scatter different hues in
different directions. The Roman architect
insisted on embellishing the monument with
nymphae all around built up in the archaic

fashion of Baroque or Byzantine. The Russian

and customs. The great Indian Culture had

engineer suggested a magniﬁcient replica on

been binding them together in an unique
fashion quite unparalled in the history of
mankind. Due to the external inﬂuences
and internal conﬂicts it has nowadays not
been as buoyant with vitality as it used to
be. The differences or diversities amongst
the people are growing, and just at the
moment the problem has attained a menacing complexion. Cries for the disintegration

the top of the monument to attract public

of the country on the basis of unjustiﬁable
prejudices either for language or for religion

are renting the air. Even for an optimist it
is becoming quite difﬁcult to imagine for
how much more time the structure of the
country is going to hold on.
These problems arise mainly due to the

differences in the religions followed as well
as the differences in the languages spoken.
It, therefore, becomes urgent that a solution
sl‘ig’uld

be

explored so

as to

meet these

.-.;_.‘culticis1 National life seems to ‘have
'co‘me to ‘be aware of the gravity of the
situation, and various steps are being con-

templated both by the Government and by
the people as well.
Steps have to be taken so that the idea
of oneness of the people is strengthened in
the country. Maybe a common language or
a common script or a three-language formula

can serve as a solution to this problem.
But it is necessary that a healthy atmosphere
is created and the minds of the people are

set to look through this problem before any
steps can be implemented.
It is necessary, therefore, to do our bit in

this great eﬂ‘ort for the uniﬁcation of the
country. As students we may not have
much to do with political problems. But
when certain fundamental questions are
concerned, even we should not be indifferent
to them. It is our duty to cultivate a

national sense and get rid of petty and narrow-

attention beyond a radius of ﬁfty kilometres.
The Indian engineer had alluded to the

wondrous non-corrosive iron—pillar near Delhi

all messes,

utmost faculties and long—earned experience

into this novel endeavour. Accordingly they
chose an apt site for the construction and
after the usual procedure of governmental
formalities, set up the foundations
equipment for the monument.

and

The chemical engineer had sweated for
a long whilerand as a consequence of his
research work could produce the wonderful
metal with the composition he aspired for.
The metallurgist was very busy in obtaining
the variegated cryptocrystalline forms of

Quartz from all over the world and analysing them for the multicoloured opal. The
architect had taken strenuous pains to carve
the exquisite nymphae out of marble. The

mechanical engineer after drawing a thousand
stress and deflection diagrams, designed a
beautiful replica to be the diadem to the
royal monument.

The construction

had progressed very

rapidly and without any dichotomy of
opinions among the zealous technologists.

The huge metallic tower and the perister
had been completed according to the unison
of the four brilliant minds. The only thing
'to be done was the installation of the
replica on the top of the monument.
“ Ach I wie herrliCh I "

exclaimed the metallurgist looking fondly
at the monument.

“Slava Bégoo”, the Russian engineer looked
gratefully towards the heavens.
“ Quel beau

batiment I ”

thought as had been contained in the various
knit together by an underlying Indian
character acquired by the people rather by

and admiring public, the Russian set on his
expedition of installing the replica upon the
gigantic tower. He had got into the hovercraft and the impetuous public was watching

instinct.

It is our duty to preserve and

the movements of the hovercraft even without

enhance the greatness of the culture that

winking. It had risen high and higher up in
the sky and reached the archive top of the tower

has been handed over to us by our preceding
generations.
People whose minds are in the budding

and began hovering around it. The three
technologists were proudly awaiting the
success of the forthcoming event. But, all of
a sudden—there was a clash, and the specta-

stages, are apt to be lead away by anything
that sounds big and goes against the common
groove. The separatist tendencies are fully

tors were panic-stricken at the terriﬁc noise

exploiting this handicap of the young people.

caused as if by a volcanic explosion, and there

As

was a great conﬂagration which made them
shut their eyes. When they opened their
eyes, they could see the massive tower broken
to its foundations, reﬂecting the ﬂares of the
fallen hovercraft beside it. In his attempt to
haul the replica, the Russian engineer collap-

we,

too,

cannot, perhaps,

advocate

matured minds, let us guard against these
tendencies so that we can claim to be good,
loyal and patriotic citizens of our Motherland.

Wishing for intellectual large-hearted and
imaginative citizens to the Mother India-—
Jai Hind.
-

(ii) that ramm be stopped forthwith in
(iii) that shaving without electric shavers
be banned,
(iv) that the tennis courts and the football grounds be closed (and all vigorous
games avoided),
(v) that no bathing will be allowed
inside the campus except under pain of
immediate dismissal from the hostel, or
worse transfer to the other I.I.T.s in the
North Note: Experiments have shown that the
Eskimoes are the healthiest race in the world,

(vi) that members of 'the hostels will cooperate with the authorities in detecting the
hydromaniacs from Kerala,
(vii) that

tissue paper be

provided

in

plentiful supply,
(viii) that all members shall lick and polish
their own plates before leaving the mess,

(ix) that on rainy days students may be
allowed to come out from the lecture halls
and have their baths in the open,
(x) that all chemical engineers in the
campus shall concentrate upon inventions
either to make salt water sweet or to create

artiﬁcial rain by injecting sodium iodide into
the clouds that pass over the campus,
(xi) that as a punitive measure

water

may be deleted from the portions for study
in the Chemistry Exam.,

(xii) that

the Security Ofﬁcer shall be

responsible for all illicit distillation of water,
inside the campus,
(xiii) that water may no longer be recognis-

ed by its deﬁnition in the Oxford Dictionary :
. . . . . .(Well, look it up yourself I)

exclaimed the

It took one more month for the mechanical
engineer to receive the hovercraft from Russia.
One ﬁne morning, in the presence of a gazing

languages, various customs and traditions

(i) that a Beatnik Club be formed with

such an inimitable chemical composition.
Each of them had decided to infuse their

Particularly, being in an institution like the
I.I.T., we are privileged to look at and
admire the beauty and the vastness of Indian

rant it is our duty to explain the facts to

The Sahara Hostel,

The Kalahari Hostel and the Arabian Hostel
has raised a chorus of protest from all
quarters.
Such drastic steps were rendered
unnecessary when the hostelites bound
themselves under oath to adopt the following
resolutions to exorcise the water ghost that
has haunted our campus P
Mr. Randhawa as the Secretary,

the people who are unconscious of them.

As people who are not igno-

The reported decision of our Registrar to
rename our hostels as

and expressed his hope that the material of
construction for their monument should have

architect in French.
.
“ Khuda ki kasam. . . . " murmured the
Indian being unable to suppress his ecstasy.

minded ideas.

‘ What a havoc !’ exclaimed the Roman
architect after recovering from amaze.
‘ Elende Katastrophe I ’ cried out the
German metallurgist.
‘Hai Ram!’ yelled out the Indian
without constraint.
‘ Chté za neschéstye ! ’ tuned the Russian
who had escaped with a slight contusion.
Thus, though the cooperative endeavour of
these technologists resulted in an unprece—
dented ﬁasco, the place of the catastrophe is
there, even today, with its relics, reveaing

sed the tower itself. giving a death-blow to

the ambitions of his collaborators.

(Continued from page 5)

SUITABLE GOVERNMENT FOR
UNDEVELOPED NATIONS

removed. There is planned economy in this
_government. This communist government
has great faith in the will of the people.
But
the will of the poeple is to be aroused,
trained, uniﬁed and guided to action. The
governments main aim is to uplift masses.

But mass of common men cannot understand
and so cannot determine policies of the nation.
So they have to follow the leader. The com-

munist government

follows

marxism.

It

believes in unity, development and equality.
It makes all the people equal. Democracy is
slow and inefﬁcient.

Thus we see that though the aims of_ both
democracy and socialism are same, one can
achieve the aims through the type of communist government surely and rapidly.
There is no wonder that Russia rose from
barbarism to one of great nations in such
a short period. If we want such real rapid
development, we have to sacriﬁce our civil
rights and follow Marxism.
P. POORNANJANEYA SASTRY.

Edited by Anand Singh Bawa, published by Dr. N. Klein and printed at the Diocesan Press, Vepery, Madras 7.

