[March 1972

CAMPASTIMES

to

Lady Lib in the Lab
Nobody pays anythmg more than occasIOnal
lip-service to a very moody, sweet, lissome
young thmg that makes mmates of the
experimental asylum lose heart m matters
pertammg to direct engagements with hquor.
She IS the recogmzed duty-queen of aspmng
young sCientists everywhere, and what With
her charmmg capacity to deceive people
handhng her and that slender body With the
beautiful equatorial bulge and ltmbs so fragile
that they actually tlOkle when tapped, It IS no
surprise to old hands at the game when it
turns out that she IS essenttally fatal to those
who have not been exposed to the unpredictable variations of her moods.
When some precise quantity of any ghastly
salme or corrosive liqUid of fixed compo~ll1on
has to be lawlChed tormally from RlOg-slzcd
contamer to pmt-slZc beaker, the person
mvolved m the actual process of transfer turns
meekly to her, so pitiful a picture of fidelity
that poets have been forced to qUill hnes of
spIrIted verse (some critics prefer to call them
methylated lyncs) to speak at least thus
mdlrectly of female debauchery m action.
The first step that thiS unfortunate victim of
her Wiles has to undertake IS one of stupendous Importance (with respect to the undertaker), for It involves the Imbal seahng of her
lips, a delicate task on all counts. But smce
the gigantic Job of applymg a muzzle to the
female of the species has been unsuccessfully
attempted smce t1ffie Iffiffiemonal, It may
safely be deduced (Without any loss of
generaltty) that thiS lady Will not, for any
conSiderable period of time, be observed 10
thiS IOdetermlnate state of enforced suspension of labial actiVIties. No, not at all, for
the prudent know that hell has no fury hke a
woman kept mum even for an mstant of dire
necessity.
The fate of the unpudent adventurer who
has managed to totter across that first precariOUS step IS not gomg to be rosy, either.
History, which faithfully chromcles the local
aCCidents of the remote past, faus to enlIghten
the members of a buddmg generation about
the near-tragic consequences that he 10 walt
for those among them who venture too closely
.and too readily mto the dragnet of a very
IOslduous young damsel, even as she takes the
shuttmg of her mouth With an outward charm
~nd grace that are as superb as they are
-SpUrIous.
The realizatIOn begins to dawn upon the
bapless victim (who may be, with complete
-confidence, and m every sense of the term,
listed as a sucker) when he discovers hunself
holdmg a strong mouthful of a stronger alkalI
-or, With better fortune, a week aCId, say
benzOIC. When he has allowed thiS fundamental fact to gently percolate mto hiS
unresponsive, totally numb, grey cells, he
straightens up With a Jerk, apphes hiS disengaged hands melodramatically to hIS thorax and
bounds, spluttermg 10 dIsmay to the nearest
available workmg faucet 10 the lab, there to
gargle and rmse until the soapy feehng dIspersed all over tus vocal tracts has at least partIally
been dislocated. It IS only after a restful and
prolonged mtermlsslon that he can veer back
to the deep treachery of the lady 10 the lab.
But bemg a brave, venturesome, lad, full of
gnt and muscle, he IS soon back at the ropes,
flexmg those biceps for the next round.
Prepared though he IS for one form of
embitterment (It leaves a bad taste) that she
can cause, he has not yet learned hiS lessons.
Successfully, he manages to play the sucker
~gatn and With a heart bnmmmg WIth redoubled hope and joy, he makes rumself master
-of ceremomes by puttmg her under hiS thumb.
As a slow, wide grm of triumph begms to
crawl across hiS gnm Visage, he feels confident of wmmng the race, proVing, once and
for all that she IS definttely not mVlOclble.
He feels that here at last, he IS holdmg the
solutIOn m hiS hands, Just upto the mark, the
sharp phmsollime that she wears so defiantly
upon her shm neck. But then, to hiS utter
-consternation and horror, he finds her drawing
hiS Prize catch slowly downward, mockmg hiS
gnp, gloating craftIly as the uncompromlslllg

The Press and Registration of Books Ac:ts 1867

Lose your Shirt

The /ollowlllg III/ormatIOn IS publIshed a s reqUIred
by Rule 8 0/ the Reg/stration 0/ Newspapers
(Central) Rules 1956.

In our

Punter's Paradise
I 8-Tech. S1udents
(SARAYU)

FORM V
1. Place 0/ PublicatIOn-Institute

Gymkhana,

I IT., Madras-3S
2. PeT/od,city 0/ Its Puhlicatlon---ti ISsues a year.

3. Printer's Name-Mr. C. E Koshy.
Nationality-Indian
Address-The Diocesan Press,
10, Church Road, Vepery, Madras-7.

liqUid ebbs slowly out of hIS hold, dnbbling
away, drop by drop, With Infunatmg wantonnes~ and regularity, even as he stands,
stupefied, unable to make any transactIOn
between hiS deadened OptiC nerve and the
correspondIng cerebral lobe Within.
Slowly hiS whlrltng senses come back to
normahty and he weakly stares at the moocentlooklllg thIng standmg 10 hiS arm, blank,
glassy, expressionless He deCides to have
one more go, but hiS heart IS only halfwdllOg to undertake the titaniC proJect. He
dips her down and beglOs play 109 hiS suctional
role With a sharp mtake of breath, brlngmg a
whole battahon of uninVited bubbles mto the
game although he IS too absorbed to notIce.
He heaves a Sigh of relief as he finds her
loaded Just a httle more than her sharp pl1ffisoll lIne. Unaware of the tragedy that IS
about to descend like a ton of coal upon htm,
he mentally puts h1ffiself to zero-readmg and
slowly lets hiS thumb rise, fractIOn by fractIOn
of an lOch. But no, the disobedient level
over her hne does not budge even to the
smallest extent. He hopefully contmues to
raIse hIS thumb higher and higher and even
takes the whole pressure off her hitherto
enclosed mouth, but nothmg happens. He
looks suspICIOusly at hiS fingers, one by one,
countmg them to see If no losses have been
reported. She has neither allowed the level
to plummet to her feet, handsomely, m one
smgle spurt nor does she show any mdlcatlOn
of brmgmg her phmsoll mto the fray. All
sugar and spice, she Just looks back at him,
almost as If to say: do you blame me, lover
boy?
But he, poor tortured soul, at the end of his
WItS, IS In no mood for a romantic exchange
of banal nothmgs. HIS nerves are each
wobbhng on different wave-lengths and his
puplls do not seem to have any mtentlon of
actmg 10 uOlson. He plcks her up and shakes
her VIOlently. There IS no response He
proceeds to descnbe a Wide arc 10 the air and
behold, she lets her trophy stream out all
over the work-bench and the floor 10 a fine
geyser-hke fountain.
'

It may be of some use, at this juncture, to
mention that observers who happen to notice
young SCientists sWlngmg somethmg m neat
Circles of spray 10 any corner of the chemistry
lab may conclude (Without any loss of
accuracy) that the object bemg swung 10 thiS
manner IS none other than the fait lib-lass of
the lab, she IS pIpette.

-T.

4. Publisher's Name-Prof S. Sam path.
NatlonaIJty-IndJan.
Address-Dy Director, I.IT., Madras-36.
S. Editor's Name-P N. VIJay
Nat/onality-Indlan.

Address-MandaklDl Hostel,
I.1.T. Madras·36.
6.

Names and addresses 0/ indlvu!uals who Own
the newspaper and partners or shareholders
holdlflg more than one per cent 0/ the total
capItal-Nt!.

I, S Sampath, hereby declare that the partIculars
gIven above are true to the best 0/ my knowledge
aIld bebef.

Dated. 3rd March 1972.

(Sd) S SAMPATH,
SIgnature of PubiJsher

CHARADE 72
Invites one and all
Fascinating Collection
of Stalls for
Fun and Laughter
Make 'Dough' Man I
Strike a
Oold=mine Man 1

AsTATINE.

To those who have been working
tirelessly without publicity for
the Carnival) Camp as times
says (We are Grateful)

