Vol. V, No.2

liT Madras, December 1966

25 P.

LETTER fROM GERMANY
The most appropriate way to start off this
letter would probably be to apologise for
having kept quiet so long. I had been
meaning to write for a long time but life,
somehow is so hectic here. especially in the
production lines that personal affairs always
get relegated to the last place.
Mter a spell in the Test Department, testing
Audio and Video instruments. I was rather
fortunate to have been given charge of one of
the Production departments. Bef~re I launch
upon a description of duties etc., I must
give you a quick run-through of the production
set-up here.
Right now Hewlett-Packard GmbH manufactures a lot of basic Electronic Iniitruments
and we have five groups in production, viz.,
X-Y recorders, Oscilloscopes, Counters and
Digital Voltmeters, Meters (voltage, current
and power) and finally my group manufacturing Pulse and Function generators, Test
Oscillators and DC power supplies.
I have been in my present job for upwards
of a year now and it has been a very interesting
and rewarding experience. In a capacity like
this, one comes into contact with the complete
organisational machinery in the factory and
this certainly helps to broaden one's horizon
tremendously. ' This has ' helped, more. than
anything else, to understand the inner
workings of a complicated mechanism, which
must certainly be useful W a ~ountry,likf !l..ur8.~- "
A normal ~vorking day brings up countless
problems most of which have to be solved
on the ~pur of the moment so that the
production does not grind to a halt.
r":Most of our components come from
America, so that the Viet Nam war has
affected our' supplies too. Most stu~·. got
channelled into defence so that our lead times
grew increasingfy longer. This created. quite '
a fe\\: problems because at some critical point,
one part ,vould be inissing and one had to
think of building the insrUmcnts so t~at we
put it in right at the end. This used to
happen very ofte~, ,and I grew to be so adept
this kind of thing, that someOne suggested

at

I could probably build the instruments
without any parts I
Personnel problems occupy quite a bit of
my time and this more than anything else has
opened my eyes to how well employees are
treated here. There is rather close contact
between everyone, with the result that one
works because of the love of work and not
because one has to spend eight hours and
somehow earn a salary. Even a chap on the
lowest rung of the ladder Can walk into the
GM's room and talk his problems over,
something that must be viewed with consternation back home. One also looks after the
the comfort of aU the employees, even to the
extent of controlling room temperatures etc.,
so that people can work comfortably.
One must not however get the impression that
everything is always rosy here. These people
have ever so much to be thankful for, but they
take so much for granted that there are still
some people who complain about the silliest
of things. Some of these things are however
apparent only to people like me, who literally
know both sides of the coin.
After very close contact with German
labour, I have occasion to appreciate their
work. However, it is my honest opinion that
nothing intellectual, separates people in Indi~
and here. Actually, as far as intellect go~s,
I would , P:'ob~bly gi,y.e_~f3....-~~lokCl;:
'V1~;:-1i(,l\vl!" r, aoes separate them 1S the
~CtlV1ty of p'bop~e here. At most places, the~
bteraUy work hke dogs. If you want, something done, it wil~ be don~ wit~out any waste
of time and that IS the major dtfference.
I do not want to take a Holier~than·thou
attitude because 1 was, ~roba~ly th7 same
too back ho~e, ~ut here 1t 1S ent.~rdy different.
1 can feel It, 1n my own attitude to work
The plant has been my life here and I have
literally taken everything that has come my way.
Just a couple of weeks back, th~l'e was .a
Service Ma~ager's and _ Iate~ a Service Englneers' Senunar. Such semmars take place
once. in a while when there are a ~o~ of n~w
instruments, so that the people In ServJce

know about them. At Hewlett-Packward. we
place a very big emphasis on Service as the
best Sales tool. Time has proved this and so
HP goes for it in a big way.
I was asked if I would speak on our new
3300A Function generator and its Trjgger/
Phase lock plug-in. I took the plunge and
this included 5 hour discussions with 3 groups.
One of the groups asked if I would speak in
German and I ended up giving a 5 hour
technical lecture in German I I could not
believe it myself. The attached photograph
was taken with one of the groups comprising
people from Geneva, Milan, Rome, Brussels
and England. I believe mine was among the
best and the company want to make more use
of me in this way.
Actually, the main point of highlighting
aU this, is to point out to present lITians that
all this is within anyone's scope. There is very
much to be said for the training at the lIT.
I am very grateful for its havjng made me
an all~round man and I am reaping the
benefits now.
As an LC, I remember, we used to wonder
why on earth we should have so much to do
with subjects 9ther than Electronics, but it j;,l
only after my sojourn here, that the full worth
of all this has been brought out.
.
,<, '
.-l.t...Japa.....not .just, been 'aU wqrk and no play
plere. ""Ow- prdduction ha.s fJeen touching
record highs this year and every couple of
months we have' Beer-Busts' at the company.
Beer floWs like water at Company expense
and there are eats too. There is a lot of
merry-making and dancing that goes on. I
am nOw approaching my third Christmas
here. Ev~ry Christmas, we have a party at
the company. This is one of the gala events
of the year and looked forward to by everyone. Last year HP gave every employee a
goose for Christmas for their traditional lunch.
The saying was everyone cooked his goose at
Christmas!'
.
, And I guess on that note, we will end this
note, wishing everyone at lIT a very happy
New Year I
' ,
<

-SRINIVAS NAGESllWAR.

DESIGNING DESIGNER
~he designer bent acrosS his bojird,
'
Wonderful things in his head we,re stored
And he said as he rubbe.d his throbbing bean,
• How can I make this thing tough . to
, machine?
, .
.If this part were only straight, ,
I'm sure the part would work first rate.
But 't would be so easy to turn and bore
.It never would make the mach~istS s'eJi:e.·
1 better riut in a right angle there .
Then watch those babies tear their hair.
Now I'll put the holeS that ho.rd_th~ cap.,. ,
Way down in there, where they're h~rd to tap.
Now this piece won't work, I'll bet a buck,
:]'or it can't be held in a fiXture or chuck'
It ClIn't be drilled,: it can'fbe ground,
In fact the design is e1::ceedingly sound.'
He looked again ~nd cried-~ At last'Success' is 'mine, it can't even be cast'!" ','
From' Germany-Srinivas Nageshwar

delive~ing

a lecture.

VEE,lEEPI.

