~C·A;MJ~,A..ST

,2

ClAS5.lfJ.ED' P:IVERT.lSEMENTS
: .. ' l

;'~ i '

';Wanted
.:.:A tutO( teach,,.:' Profitableadjust~en~s pf
.Mess a<;counts '.. " ",
.:'"
,: I

:tq'

,SHAMAN MALLICK',

GANGA HOSTEL.

il:' A'large anti; w~~l"!.buUt individual, preferably
~~ftiotball ,player; to start my,mo'bike,;: "Free
pUlton'rides offered'. Remuneration according
to qualifications.
" :
.
- -1. O. SUBRAHMA:NIAM, KRIsHNA.

)v.ante.u' "

"

,

,Unb~e3kable Table Tennis' Balls. Contact
,It9. Jamuna.
,
,For ,the NCC::-;-Major, one number ,of-with
.
the following qualities.
Hair cut-don~ at shopping
centre.
Tough guy - Idealistic Expression.
Concave Back-for full pack.
, Plastic Hair-on chest.
Retractable Roller Skatesfor travelling on stomach.
Solid steel shoes-to do awav
with old fashioned feet. ~
And last but not least-good
sized paunch for additional
jazz.
Information '
Many things are changing nowadays: Even
names.' What's in a name ~
, II;lsurance ,Agent-Just in case.
Maths Teacher-Mat. M. Atics.
Parking lot attendant-Lino Kary.
, Bar Maid-Glas. P. Liz.
, Launderers-Wile-U-Wait.
Politician-So Windler.
Truck Driver-Haver Truck.
,'Bank Owner-Potto Mony
Ticket seUer-Wannat Icket
Engin«er-Werra Puur.

T.

RAJU

(Ed. Tnt tut-where did you obtain these l)

*

*

III

Just returned from the Moon-Surveyor.
Undertakes jobs of surveying people. Meet
him at Godavari. Identification-Bump on
his head-result of softlanding.
Come on folksl This is your last chance.
Join the new course started to help those
.." .....,

l!l-..' ......

+'hlp.

St..Rtelll in p~rtic:ula:r.:...-r::L--~

'The American' Accent at once. Fat particu\unl

contact.
K.

RAMAMURTHY,
a31 GANGA.

Hurry up boys! (Not forgetting the ladies).
A new class has been started in Ballet

dancing. 'Completely different from Twist
and Shake. Do you wannajoin? Contact M.V.
Rao, Metallurgical department, MSB.
Majic
Is Prof. Bhattacharya's Maya Jahl still
perplexing you? Then contact immediately
G---Seetaraman at 2z4 Saraswathi. He
can explain to you-Water of Sataswati,
Floating in Air. and many more things
absolutely free of chal'ge any time you care
drop
pce (Private connections company) have
been advised by BOUE (Bureau of unemployed engineers) to retain (with themselves)
a peIsonat manager. Candidate should be
very young ~nd handsome (note selection
entirely on merit), with at least 25 to 35
years of experience. No degree essential,
but degree in' Civil Engineering, is a disad'VlUltage. We require mechanical fellows.
Salaries encouraging! 150-10-IOw500-S-5-60o.
Higher start to those with still greater experience. Will be definitely sent abroad at
personal expense. Apply without fail to:
The Personality Manager, c/o The Personal
Manager,PCC, Jamuna. Branches: Alakananda
and Alakananda and Alakananda.

in.

'

Personal
Prize Pig on display. Out to compete with
the Empress of Blandings, this season. At
present in lS8 Ganga.
,
Admission, fee-Rs. 25.,
Visitors shall refra~n fro.m Seeding the
specimen.,

Want to grow Moustaches? Contact BIBI
(not Bridget Bardot but Bhagwan Belani) Hi~
famous works-" Moustaches-growth and>:re;l/
moval ' & 'Moustaches make a man •

*

*

,I Qec;ember 196Q

1M E S

*'

For Sale
.'
One Vicky Moped. Contact V. M. Gokhale,
Tapti. Exchange v.;~~~;Bullet preferred.

*

*

Books
• Economics made easy' by, B. 'Ahmed.
Also by the same author: '.~lements --o~
Skating'.
• A text book of E. Tech' QY Theradha
(Mukendare Radhakrishnan). Dear readers,
t11,is is the genuine version 1 Som~ gr.eedy and
unscrupulous persons are trying·to cash 9n
the author's popularity by passing on to the
public spurious books under imitated
names.

*

*

Imineliiate
Required-top FBI officials at .Jamuna to
nab'them clever crooks who remove all the
attractive females-from Filmfare.

SOME HEROIC

A tTRl,BUTES
This is a study or' a few of the typical
characteristics of the heroes and heroines of
the Indian film.
Type I: Rich girl, poor boy.
(a) The Boy: He must be an honest,
God-fearing and lowly employee (eg. an
inferior species of clerk) in the girl's father's
business. His father is dead, and he is the
apple of his fond mother's eye. He must
have a secret pact with aU the leading costumers, for in spite of his non-existent status
and microscopic salary he is dressed in the
height of fashion, especially in his romantic
scenes with the girl. In addition he doesn't
smoke, drink or gamble, he always does what
his mother tells him to do; altogether; he is
rather boring.
(b) The Girl: She is spoilt, immature
and (supposed to be) pretty. Her mother
has kickea the bucket long ago. Her doting
father is a brisk businessman who makes tons
on the stockmarket without really knowing
what a margin is. She lives in the sort of
.Drepo~terous home which exists only in Indian
mO"lI. seUl-J""~-l'''-.-+lIe livin; room with
two grand pianos and a four-br 'nclie(:rst~
case. Generally, she insults the lero at their
first meet~:ng. blushe:; at the second-and her
behaviour at the third is unprintable. Follow
a large number of duets, picnics, telephone
conversations and what not-where they
perform miracles, riding from Marine Drive
to Panchgani on a motor bike in three minutes.
The girl may disobey her father and run
away with the boy, or obey her father, sitting
in her boudoir with tears trickling slowly
down her cheeks, refusing all food and
singing at the top of her voice.
(c) You know how it ends anyway, with
the mistaken identity and/or lost heir and/or
motor accident and/or courtroom scene and/
or atternptect suicide) with relenting father,
heroine in hero's arms, and a slow reprise of
the theme duet while the hero's mother
dabs her eyes with the end of her sari in
the background.
Type II: Rich boy, poor girl.
(a) The Boy: In earlier days he was
allowed a bit more freedom, but now he
must be-must be-the shouting Baboon.
At least one, and preferably two, characteristic
yells are essential, the more discordant
the better. Here again the boy has a mother,
but this one is a high-heels-and~lipstick sort,
who is looking for a suitable Girl. The
father ,has conveniently faded out, leaving
sonny boy a few zillion in one of these
marvellous companies where crises never. sl;em
to arise. The fellow must behave like a
perfect brute until he is, informed by the
pure and high-minded heroine, who naturally
meets him in his penniless guise and knows
nought of his stupendous wealth. This fellow
specialises in solos sung to the beloved while
waiting for her, rather than duets sung with
her.

(b) The Girl: She must be very pretty.
very virtuous, very innocent and
She appeals to the hero's protective in$Utic't, •. (and afterwards as it turns
out, t~\~:l~~:lbf other instincts as well). She
is detesieit!tiY!'the hero's mother, but adored
by ev'e~tiodr else. She must have "n'
dimples (n., ~s;.greater than equal to two) and
be "S' f~~~~Jn lisping. She must .l'efuse to
marry the" 'hero in a most digpified "w-anner
,(last sce\j~,,JlUt one) and finklly: t'6nsent
(last scene}._, :
.
..
:,., ,,',
(c) As ,.ab,?ve, lD a.ddltlon r~~!1 and/or
blood donation Iby herome to hero''S mother,
with other suitable changes.
,
Type III: Rich girl, rich boy.'
(a) The Boy: In this case, he ha~ ,both
parents, 'a lively brother,' a cautious: cousin;
a houseful of relatives and practically every~
thing else. Oddly enough he' seems to be
fancy-free when the film starts.
'
(b) .The Girl: . 'Ditto; ditto, ditto;'l·but
she might have sworn to remain a spinstera thought banished by meeting the hero."
(c) The heroine's cousin falls for the
hero's brother, ,or sorqething of that ,sort.
Any comic atmosphere is kicked out with the
introduction of blood and thunder melodrama,
mysterious villains, and ancient pistols (all
well in the second half, after 5 duets,s picnics.
z misunderstandings and one passionate
avowal). Everyl10dy -ends up in the' right
somebody-or-other's arms, and 'no harm done
except the odd 'aunt or malefactor who has
carelessly handed in the dinner pam
Type IV: Poor boy, poor girl.
(a), (b), and (c). An absolute rarity.

!r~i~r.tlP.~f':'
an:,or:liJi~n.

Cack, Blah and B'unkum
(A few stuttering stanzas)
Thank you very mush, I mean moshthat is, cornmeal-er, er, cereal-grapenuts.
Oh, nuts! I came here to sneak-that is, to
speak. I came-er-I came, I saw, I conI con......I con not-I confounded.
Every peach, every spookm every poochevery pooch should have a license. And a
dog collar I No, 1 mean every speech should
have a beginning; a middle and a bank roll,
roll in the aisle-hit the deck-a beginning,
a middle and a buzz, buzz~th!l~ is, a bustleno, I mean an end.
I always jump into the river, go swimming
in the brook-brook no interference-I'll have
"~he:lavrun-y~u I r Inean I always jump right
10 to the mldd~e of my speech. . Otherwise
how would I get parted? 'Whose hair is
parted? 1 don't mean parted, I mean
partied-that is-;-whiz-z-z-like you step on
your car in the morning-started, sometimes
in cold weather' it doesn't. Sometimes I
don't either.
I want to talk about the old boys, the old
grey mule, the grey nighties. Why don't
they use a Hatnam soap! I'll talk about the
old haze-the new look-the dizzy Maysthe old days. Those were the days! Where
they? I wouldn't know, I am still under
lwenty-two-two-too-too-look out for the train I
Jump you foolsl
In the cold cuts-gold rays-odd days a
family would take its greatest bribe-would
pay the grocer-no, that's WrOJlg. They
wouldn't pay the grocer. What I mean they
would take their greatest pride and boy, coy,
toy--en-joy, that is, in the home. Today
a home is merely a bug house, rat race-a
place to come to I when we have no other
place to go to-go~~o-I've been there too !
A home today is"':"'is-is-no it's not that !it is a little used boiler, bean erym, bull parkthat is, I mean a building that stands on the
same lot as a-a-a-a-remember when we
used to have one of, them out in back of the
house-a garage; someday we'll have a garage
with home that fold~ into it.
The trouble is that there is too much s19c
sin, I mean shot gun-er, that is, our younger
generation is something like this: Your are
born in a hospital. You marry in a church,
and die in or. under a car. What do. you
want a home-a home-a home-pigeons
have homes.·· They always come back to
(Contd~.o1L page

7 column 3)

