[-o~tember" 19.~6

Letters to tbe EditO,I;
Rise in" Price:
I am pleased to see that y<!u q,re

no, l<!nger"
the lousiest 20 P. rag mainly because you
are now in the 25 P. bracket:
.'
I

•

•.

PETE~ .FRA~CIS LOBO,

Capt

EDITORIAL
The Entertainm.ent Committee has been
doing an admirable job this year. Starting
with the Charity Show down to the Jazz
programme, every function heid under its
:,l;.:/!uspices has been a gran~ success, to say the
'";''least. ' 'This has been mamly ciue to the hard
work and indefatigable energy of the Secretary Gopal and his colleagues. !viani and ~ir
have done a good job of keeping the Film
Club going with pretty good movies. We
need more such activity in all fields. Hats
off to these chaps for having set the ball
rolling, !

*

*

*

We are glad to note that this year many
enterprising 'scientists' have started on projects for' the Science Fair. Last year's fair
suffered from a sad lack of proper ptojects
and the organizers were forced to borrow
equipment from the Turbo. IC and Steam
Labs to save grace. With the encouraging
response we hope the Fair turns out wen
this year. Mr. Ebert and his colleagues at
the workshops have been very co~perative
and the Science Fair enthusiasts ought not to
have much difficulty getting help for their
projects.

*

*

Whenever we have any function coming up
in the Institute, the organizers are always
faced with one great problem-the venue.
The CLT is too small and gets too stuffy.
The OAT is too large and there is always the
fear that if there is an insufficient aUdience, the
theatre will look ominously empty. What we
need iE!; something between the two-a closed
auditorium to accommodate atleastonethousand
people. We hope the Director will include
this in his future plans for the Institute.
Whenever an entertainment programme is
being held in our Institute, we feel. the
lack of a proper stage very badly. This need
is felt greatly especially in the case of plays.
Many visitors to the OAT-during the
Cultural Week and at other times-have
expressed surprise that a theatre otherwise so
well designed should suffer from the lack of
a good stage. We hope that the authorities
consider this and have a temporary stage ready
at least before the Cultural Week.

*

*

*

Probably for the £rst time in the history of
our Institute, the terminal examinations were
postponed due to a gale. The gale which
threw the whole Institute out of gear, for
almost two days was a disappointment to many
whORe DiwaH holidays were spoilt due to the
postponement of the examinations.
In Ilpite of the impending examinations fort>,
IITians set out to do relief work in Velachert.
Attracted by the enthusiasm of Kabilan and
Veer the volunteers set out to distribute food
packets to the poor villagers who were rendered homeless. The spontaneous help caused
one surprised villager to remark that it was
aU for the c.oming electi.ons.
In Ilpite of our repeated requests for articles,
very few are forthcoming. We have been
told by many of 'falling standards', < it was
better in the good old days' etc., While we
accept that not all articles published are up to
the standard, we would like to remind you
that it is your paper and its quality depends
on you. It has been found that the response
from the freshers has been espedaUy poor.
We would like to thank those who have been
good enough to contribute but prefer it if they
contribute their articles legibly written (typewritten if possible). We often have to spend
hours deciphering some, of the contributions.
So please write-and write clearly-will you ~

.,

Campastimes has reached a new 'high'mainly the extra 5 P. in price 1 The rest of
it hit the same old loW' 11
SURISH N. SHENOY.
I know that many people will complain
but I'm glad you raised your price. In fact,
I wish you'd raise ,it more and more. Then
it" w~n' reach" a price where 1. can no longer
afford to buy it, and I'll have a chance to
grow up normal and healthy instead of becoming a saving lunatic (like you).
SAN;toSH (Pop) NAYAJ{.
"As far as I'm concerned, you can raise the
price to a buck and I still won't buy it.
,
YATIN R. VORA.
[How come,all four of you. laid your hands
on the same issue of Mad Magazine ?-Ed.]
Sir,
Don't deny the fact that inflation is rift
in the Institute also. 10 Paise, 20 Paise, and
now 25 Paise. The price of Call1pastitlles j1.
spiralling upwards like all other essentlitf,t.
commodities.
We of course know about the financial difficulties etC. of the Campastimes, but I for one
think that the price increase in unwarranted"
and unjustified when we are being exhorted by ,
the government to hold the price line.
A disgusted and impoveris/ted Reader.

*

*

*

Sir,
Allow me at the very outset to congratulate
you fOl" the remarkable performance of keeping up the standard of Campastimes at the
same level as your predecessors did.
Did you notice it. If you did why the
devil did you not do something about it, and
if you did not, why didn't you? Let me lift
the veil of mystery and suspense that has
descended. Dear readers, I am of course
referring to the mil-spelling of ( Inauguration'
in the banner, (head lines) in the last issue 'of
Campastimes. This is absolutely atrocious to
say the least, that is exactly what I am endeavouring to dOt but the enormity of this mistake
leaves one speechless (but not helpless) With
rage.
'
May I be permitted to continue 'and point
out some of the points that simply glared out
(to roe least). I should like to repeat once ,
again what has been said so often. 'Without
presuming to criticize, I am compelled to say
that the • Divertisetnents' are too, localised.
They do not make much sense to the a.verage
Or even the above average llTian.
The raw deal meted out to Mr. MuraUkrishnan is preposterous. Never have I come
So near to a fit of apoplexy as when the undignified reply to Mr. Murlllikrishnan's letter,
by the honourable and his ~qually honourable
colleagues on the Ed. Board, was read by me.
1£ this is 'an example of the bighhanded
manner in which the Editor intends to treat
(and is treating) the patrons of Campastimes,
, 'however little known, he has another guess
coming. That sentence about' switching off'
stuck out a mile as being positively insulting.
If I seem to be too mild on this subject, it is
essentially because I am a meek chap. Anyhow the least the honourable Editor can do
now is to apologize publicly to the wounded
Mr. Muralikrishnan-giving any reason,
pieading temporary insanity or something.
In passing let me mention that the information that only team members are allowed to
play certain games is absolutely correct (quote
Institute flockey and Cric}.et Captains).
These gentlemen freely admit that unfortunately such conditions do prevail at the
Cricket nets as well as at the Hockey field.
Does the presumptuous Editor imagine that
he knows more about. these matters than
the Captains themsel~es? If he does-it is
my regrettable duty to disillusion him.

The good' )!;ditor might deign t9 ; cI~sify
me ani9ng.. Qn,e ·of"those. who only cri,:icize
and dO -nothing constructive. Let me anticipate him ,before; he give.s vent to his
feelings again~ in' the forthcoming issue.
Healthy criticisUn (which this letter undoubtedly is, and will seem to any sane
per~on) ,if? "Cmu,tT'llctive, ~ it helps and forewarns ,the'inan at .the helm from"repeating
his o~t~r~peated lIlistakes once too ofte~.' " .
The. much repeated truism viill nat . gq
amiss here. 'A man maketh himself.'; It
is thus obvious that it is upto the individual,
whether he or she takes part or wants to
take part in the various extra~curticular and
sports activities in the Institute., But, als~
it is equally obvious that the authorities
could easily take Some more interest and
inititative-like having a coach for beginners
in tennis, completing the swimming~pool,
etc.
Let me take this opportunity to commend
the Editor and his band of stalwarts for the
nne photographic reproductions in the
Campastimei. I should think they compare
favourably with those in any other journal
published in this country. But don't you
think Mr. Editor that much more interesting
articles can be published instead of out~
dated and insipid political commentaries?
Last but ,not the least I must thank Mr.
Ramajayam lor handing his unfailing support
to Catnpastimes by utilizing his hterary
talents to the maximum.
Yours etc.,
A sincere friend and admirer (Male)
-En.

Sir,
It is with the sole privilege of being an
I1Tian that the author has expressed the
following opinions (entirely opinions and
nothing else) as to the exact places in the
structure of Campastimes where cracks have
devel~ped-:-:;;a~?_ having spotted the8e localit~es
of fallure lt is l>incerely hoped that remedial
me3S\Ues could easily be rendered.
Campastimes, has now developed into a
veritable battlefield where constant personal
accusations and counter-accusations have a
free play-where A could evoke B's embarrass~
ment to make C (and sometimes, very rarely
D) have his share of cynical laughter-with
total and complete disregard to the gaping
ignorance of the other seventeen hundred
readers who1. endeavour to uphold the legacy of
lIT ian spirit,
2. endeavour to direct the high quailty
IITian sense of humour along
proper channels,
3, endeavour to keep alive this cat~on~
the-fence, non-profit making (loss
making) item, and
4. to curl up in bed and enjoy so good
reading.
The editorial people, one should realize, are
not at fault a.t all. It is you and I as readers
and contributors, who must grasp the coat and
jump out of this unbecoming rut, without
further delay.
There is an utter lack of contributions and
this is the obvious reason for the poor quality
of the articles-a hungry man has to eat whatever he gets. All articles-irrespective of
their quality, implications, spirit decorum
or any other factor are necessarily plunged
into the press and onto the paper. This is
also the reason why the Local of page one,
becomes his true self' on the second 1 an
Englishman on the third, a draWing instrument
on the fourth, a Greek letter on the fifth and
so on.
Surely the IITian does not require lectures
on right and wrong, surely the IITian does
not require the coaxing of his mummy to take
positive steps towards improvement and surely
the IITian can show this to the outside
world?
B. AMZR AHMED.

