December; 19661

The Moving Finger
Writes ....
The Agony and the Ecstasy
One should normally expect that .with the
present three periodical-a-week system we
1. I. Tinns should be immune to what is generally termed as examination-phobia. But in
spite of the gruelling exercise that we have to
undergo here, with the approaching terminal
examinations there was a visible tensioning of
the atmosphere in all the hostels. Though
few ever· spoke of it, everyone was aware of
the looming dangcr ahead. Just as aU good
things must end, so also, all bad things
must start. The preparation leave came and
finished off just when we were beginning to
feel that they were too long and that the
sooner we finish off with the exams the better.
The examinations began with all their force
and fury, and the monotonous rite of walking
every afternoon to the exam hall was broken
only by the lashing winds and the cyclonic
weather: But even nature ill the midst of her
tempest managed to show a soft corner for us.
After a dinner by candle light, the clouds
parted and the stars winked merrily from way
above and lady moon peeped out ever so shyly.
With no examinations the follow~g' day this
seemed to be an ideal sort of break form the
daily drudgery of examinations. Finally. just
as quietly anel naturally as they had crept on
us the examinations finished off and four
days of luxurious <tnd well earned holidays
followed.

One Potato, two potato, three potato,
more . . .
If there is one thing we have 110t leamt to
do it is to use our time and energy for some
COl;stl·uctive purpose. The Chemical Ellgi~
nee ring Department, however, was not to be
bogged down by such u national handicap.
When they included • Study of Double Drum
Dryer' as part of lab. work for the fiual
year students they mad~ sure that the ~hree
hours spent on the expenment was well worth
it.. Ft;'I1W
~£"SUr.;ed-potatoes was provided
LO eacn batch of students. The rest was
easy.. rrhp inr1;8""'-- ..... ~ .... ..,r... J.1.iKit'Cl~.uU ,vas
en~husiastically fed into the hopper. End product-dehydrated potato-chips (Process efij.Giency .w%) Learning to use the dryer came
naturally. Salt, pepper and tomato sauce
were smuggled into the lab. and a 'feast'
followed. In order not tp antagonize the
higher authorities, consolationary measures of
the product were hastily dispatched to those
whose wrath it was not desirable to incur.
Incidently, what a novel approach to Engi~
neering Educatioil, the Eat While YOll Learn
Formula I

""n.

h

•

The Dark Road to knowledge

The library is the only department which
is kept open till after office hours, presumably
to encourage serious minded students to seek
further kl~owledge. Unfortunately the man
who plallned the approaches to the B.S.B.
forgot that a little light to guide the faltering
steps in the darkness of the night, might be
helpful. Probably be assumed that the thirst
for learning would be so intense that one
would be instinctively drawn to the storehousc of knowledge. One wonders why,
when lights are so generously placed at all
possible places ill the institute, no proper
lighting arrangement should be p1·ovided along
any of the apPl·oaches to the library. The
only plausible reason seems to be to discourage chaps from visiting Knick Knack.
Charity, Glamour and Jazz
Ours is such a sheltered and secluded life
in the campus that few of us ever seem to be
·aware of the tragedies of the nation. More
often than not, we are so engrossed with our
own daily affairs that we scarcely have the
time to think of others. The Charity Show
organized by the students of the institute, howev~r ,was a departure from our general U11con-,
cern of others. The turnout at the O.A.T. was
encouraging and though the nett collection
was'tlotmuch as' charity shows go, it marks a
new sense of awareness among the populace

2

here. 1'he talented acting of Baby Padmini
and the mellifluous voice of Padma and party
captured the hearts of tIle audience. The
presence of P. B. Srinivas and a few other
famous cine artistes added to glamour which is
so much wanting in most of shows organized
here.
Auother event (not forgetting the none too
mys~erious supply of 'Water Of Ganges ')
was the jazz programme presented by the
Ge1"111an Jazz orchestra. While the perfor~
mance was on someone had the queer feeling
that the orchestra was not getting the proper
response from the auclienceh iVIembers of tlie
volunteCll' corps went aromid drscr.eetly suggesting that we ought to clap once in a \vhile.
This was all that. was needed: Every llOW
and then, and often at the wrong moment,
sections of the audience would begin clapping and cat-calling. It had' the desired
effect. The orchestra appreciated our apprt!*
ciations and from then on the music seemed
to liven up.
.
.

Love Trysts one and two
Now, now, dear reader, don't get wrong
ideas. Nothing exciting happens within the
campus. In fact there is a common complaint
from the 'Womens' Hostel that our students are
not ay all chivalrous. However Ou\" boys do get
rather armOl'OUS once they get outside. Unfortunately the campus lacks coffee-bars and
beer-pubs (Knick Knack is too expensive and
the Canteen too dirty) where we could sit and
gossip. I have therefore to pass on these bits
of news,.pnly in writing. Please note that this
is not intended as a black-mail.
The story goes that a well known figure of
national standing (I think it is ill. Sports)
claims to lock himself in his room for six days
of the week in order to do intensive and concentrated cl·amming. and on the seventh day
(a Wednesday) he iinds himself so exhausted,
both morally and mentally that he makes ~1
trip to W.C.C to draw inspiration and strength
from one of the inmates there. Believe it or
not, this has been going on for the last fOUl"
months.
There is yet another story of how it all
happened just as in the Hindi. movieA ( ...,.,,,1.'1
.,.~. r" ..:rz,," lUU\'JC.!l. be realistic after all?)
They met at a hur, they saw and were
conquered. It took them just a moment to
realize that they were made for each other.
(I hear that they intend to join the' Made For
Each Other Contest' organized by Wills).
Love has a strange way of manifesting itself,
and for the first time this enthusiastic lover of
the final year Civil Engineering class realised
that now, and only now, he had something to
live for. He studied with new zest and
vigoll,r, gave up all ' bad' practices such as
• s~oktng and going to night shows with his
~1'1ends an~ in general began to see the world
III a new light. From what I have heard of
late, the effect of love is begillui1)g to wane and
slo~v~y. but surely he is resuming his former
actIVIties,

V. for Victory
Whenevcr Sir Winston ChUI'chill was faced
,,!ith It cl'itica~ si~uatioll he always made a
sIgn of V to inSpire confidence in his followers. Though our literary l'epl'esentatives
cannot yet boast of such confidence yet the
inevitability of their success seem~.,almost
assured. Tl~e Bellgal Engineering , College
apparently dld not know what they were in
~or wl~en they h:vited om' institute to take part
111 theu All Indm Debate. OUT team (represented by Kacker and Amir Ahmed) not only
came fil'st but our debators WOll four of the
five cups given as prizes. The story of our
glorious success does not stop here. Shankel'
and Krishnan who represented our Institute at
Guindy Engineel'ing College managed to keep
up the tradition by coming first. A week or
two before that our quiz team (consisting of
Thomas Victor and Alex Phillipos) won the
firs~ place at. the Sat!lrday Evening Club
QUIZ. Hats off to our literary representatives.

.. . and Having writ,
Moves on.

HORRORS' OF II'T
Th~ whole place was completely dark except
for aL' thin streak of light playing 011 a white
screen.
.
, EEIE '. Hot 13-let out a screaril and
sprang to his feet.
'Sit down! Sit down!' came the cries
from the back. A few more chaps near Hot
B-;-also stood up and began shouting' Lights;
Llghts'.
Jt1st as the lights were switched Qn the heavy
foot of Samson descended on the ' black thing"
(crash!) and drew a projection of the solid
black thing 011 a plane parallel to the pl~ne of
the foot (ach ! nch !)
< A black scorpion,' quipped, somebody.
• A bite from it would have finished the chap.'
'Would have been a lli~e treat for him!~.

Mter t!1e hubhub was over the lights went
off again and the Girl Happy Elvis started
wooing the Single Girl again. This was in
Oat on a Saturday Night
.' '
Scorpions are not the only horrors of IIT.
AU sorts of biological specimens, snakes to
do.gs ind deer all find a happy hOme (?!) in
tlus campus. Contrary to theold adage which
says that friends are plenty when the purse is
full, in lIT campus frogs are plenty even '-vhep
the ponds l11'e not full, What a high pitched
voice they have I You can not sleep sans
mosquitos. But let me warn you in advance
don't go to shopping centre to buy the net.
The price is sure to give you a fright.
Among other horrors, dogs are most detest*
able. They bark their heads off especially
during the periodical nights. All in
you
cannot classify all the pests that hm'rify you.
Whoever selected this site for housing a
technological institute I This place with its
vast score of animal and plant life would have
been most ideally suited for a medical institute.
You Mk any chap to name five horrors of IIT.
Pat co.mes the reply-Periodicals, N.C.C., the
insects listed above and more, Mess-bill, and
the filthy grub you get for it ill the hostels.
There can't be any difference of opinion about
these horrors~ My gpodnes!1.1 Hc\:e comes
ecctn~rama~ (<?f 224-, Saraswathi of course).
He WIll bcglll hIS hornble lecture the horrible
stuff ]i, have written abollt h01"ror if I do not
pack off from hel'e at once.

all

R.

SlUKUMAR.

FRAGRANCE l • • • • •
The sweet flowery fragrance
Reminds of the holy reverence.
Perfume on the morning roses
Is a feeble unknown process.
They bloom for the holy race
And so they do by God's grace .
Searching them do the bees come
And enjoy them with a sweet hum.
When the breeze begin to rustle
The natures bow their head
But the bees take to bustle
And leave the flowery bed.
From the sweet blossoms thence
The bees part and fly
The blossoms lose their fragrance
Withered and faded they lie.
Encol1ntered thus by many a parasite
You will in life, 0 ye men be I Don't
Be flattered by their tunes light
Allow not to suck the life out of you.

S.

MURALIKRISHNAN.

"l"lASS PRODUCTION"
When I was a small kid,
One evening, my brother said:
'I-lave you eyer seen a screw? '
Asking so, he drew
The sketch of the screw.
• They make it all similar,
And millions in a day' .
And said the brothel', 'Just so make they
All the engineers of today'.
I know n,ot what he said, (he was quite
f cool)
'·Tm· I passed my school.
Having Come here to stay,
I ,know now what he meant that day. '
MBGHDOOT.

