[December-,. 1966

6

ORDEAL AT THE
PALACE
'OH ye women of IIT I You just can't
That the traditions
of our country demand you to let you hair
grow, is, indeed, a boon to you. If you just.
look aroWld, you'll see numerous specimens of
(hu) manity with hair hal'dly half an inch .
long. . This fact can only be expJained when
one probes into the mystedous happenings at
the Palace.
It all begins with a glare from the Nec
Officer. When that goes unheeded he sug~
gests that either you cut your hair 01' buy a
guitar, (implying thereby, that it would be
better, if you earned your livelihood by sil1g~
ing, like the Beatles). And since you have
planned to become a technologist, you decide
to remove your epidermal outgrowth. , What
finally decides your mind is, rumours are '
around that the barbers at the Palace are
starving. So out of sheer compassion, your
most sacrificing self winds its way to the
barber's shop.
Once seated in the chair, the process, of.
converting you into a person described above,
is carried out fast. The apron comes on, and
is tied tight enough to strangle you. Your
attempts to pI'otest result ill a few strange
gurgling sounds. 'Scissors or machine, Sir?'
• Machine'. But who, even in his wildest
dreams could have imagined that the machine
referred to took the shape of a miniature lawn
mower? Without realizing the great mistake
that you have committed, you close your eyes
to prevent hair from falling in.
g~ess how lucky you are.

"Would you .like your hair cut shbrt, Sir?· J
• Yes '. Experience has shown that short in
the language of barbers meant a couple of
inches long. But these gents at the Palace
don't seem to follow convention. Having
received their orders, they set about the task
of ridding you of your hair earnestly.
He loosens the apron knot, and you gently
open your eyes, only to be shocked into breaking the sitting high jump recol'd. It isn't your
image in the mirror, is it? The face looks
familiar. Yes, the nose nlso; the eyes, those
ears, the scal'. Yes, Yes. But, but, the hair!
Th-the ha •.• ha ..• hair-you are dumb~
founded. He's finished whacking YOli with
tb,e piece of cloth (which he seemed to be
doing with obvious relish). You stand up,
still ,.dazed; unconscio usly yoUl' hand travels
to your pocket, withdraws a rupee note from
the. purse and hands it over. The barber
flashes all his teeth, as if to say, • A mighty
good job, eh ?' The grin goes unnoticed.
If you are not caught by the scruff of your
neck when ente1'ing your room, you're lucky,
you nre.
' AAJOO '.
SELECTIONS FROM AN IITian's
AUTOGRAPH BOOK
Roses are red
Violets are blue;
The best phase sequence
Is red yelIo·w and blue.
Yours, P. SANKARAN.
When rocks and hills divide us
And you no more I see
Remember who it was
That gave you just a ' D •
Yours. A. RAMAMOHAN RAO.

IP Service Series 2/6

Excessive oil. consumption. in Rooonditioned Engines P
Possibly you are worried,especially after the complete
overhaul at considerable cost. It may just be oil leak
which can be easily detected and rectified. If the
problems persist check booster pump: or it may be
due to excessive clearance between valves and
guides; or broken rings and incorrectly fitted rings;
or misalignment of con-rod; Ot perhaps piston
seizure - Piston Rings conle -first for criticism, mostly
f9-r no. fault of theirs.
Engine rebuilding is prec.ision work-it pays to
do, the job at a well-equipped garage wifh experienced
mechani'cs. .
INDIA PISTONS LIMITED. MADRAS·11

@

~? ~ ?~

ON ENGLISH
Considering the tons of bilge that have been
written on this subject I guess it wouldn't
hurt anyone to digest some more. So here
we go.
Of all thc lar:guages English is undoubtedly
the most atrdcious, exasperating, puzzling,
impossible, queer and delightful language.
Can you ever imagine a silly looking two letter
word to have more than dozens of meanings?
That is exactly What it does have as shown
by the following classical old example.
He dropped to see me as he lived just up
the street. 'What's up?', I asked him.
With that he put up a strong proposition on
which he had just upped the price and told
me that it was upto me to take it or leave it.
I was up on this particular deal and had
caught up with him long ago. I didn't' like
to stir up trouble but fct:ling that the offer
was not on the up and up I told him that the
deal was up. He blew liP and I shut him up.
He gave up feeling his time was up. We
broke up and never made up again.
How about this? A group of editors is a
staff; a staff of salesmen is a Cl·ew; a crew
of girls is a bevy; a bevy of hoodlums is a
gang; a gang of. people is a crowd; a crowd
of worshippers i$ a congregation while a congregatioll of actors is a troupe. Oddly enough
a troupe of teachers are a faculty and a faculty
of fish a school.
The quirks of the language are numerous.
Can anyone tell me' what parts of speech we
mean when we say ,that that is that? Or why
the. letter 0 has to complicate matters further
by having different sounds illllot, note, below,
above, who, women and bosom? Why can't
the words typical, prize, committal, claim
and climax have uniform prefixes instead of
a' atypical, misprize, noncommittal, disclaim
and anticlimax?
. Just like people not saying what they mean
or meaning what they say. in E.nglish we do
not write as we pronoUllce 01' pronounce as we
write. The examples of the first clsss a1'e
given by althodgh, through, honour, colour
and so on while the second class'is represented
_by_.words like quay (kee)j colonel (kernel);
victuals (vitte1s) and so on. Probably tl;lS
is ,vhat prompted Shakespeare t~. wnte
pseusighed when he actually meant SUICIde.
Another classical example given is the
usage of the same word together in a sentence.
Can anyone m~ke out what the following
means? 'Jack where John had had had had
had had had had had had had the teacher's
approval.'
Bernard Shaw once asked to speak in a
banquet about a politically jnfluential.man, paid
tributes as follows: 'He is the most blatant,
iniquitous, pernicious, callous, contumacious,
bellicose person 1 have ever met. After the
applause diecl down he said, 'AU I ~eallt
was that he is the most loud mouthed, WIcked,
harmful, indifferent, rebellious, fighting man
I have met.'
The vagaries of the English l~nguage ~ave
presented infinitely varied and dehghtfuI sl~ua­
tions, Who has not heard about an Enghshman writing to his wife that he had given birth
to a girl 011 the ~rain but was none the
worse for it. The students who. attended a
lecture some time back must have heard how
the lecturer was at the receiving end of a
firing session (tom his wi.fe af~er h? had
written to her I from abroad, Havmg a
delightful time. Wish YOll were her) (he
slipped the"e" of here to get fired).
It was amusing also to I'ead of a Scotsman
who wantetl his friend to place n keep for
him at the theatre.
'
Even though one might 'feel disgusted .sometimes not being able to pronounce (01' IS pronouns or pl"OllOllnSe or pr~l1oul1se) a~ one
writes (or is it rights ~r r.ltes 01' wrIghts)
English is the most satlsfYll1g language that
one can ever come acrosS.
.
As a parting shot try to figure this one OLLt.
A Congressman runs for congress, s~al1~s for
elections, wins in a walk and finally SIts III the
house.

v. SUNDARESAN.

