Decembe... · 1966 ]

What Heading
My Dear
Author? (Editor)
• Rich with hundred ' years' of' experience
this is h9W the Jndia.;z Express describeii the
Madras Boat Club. "The recently concluded
Cold Weather Regatta would prove to be' of
ev~rlastiiJ.g Joy to any connoisseur of rowing
records. A handful of new ones were created, anti all by the oarsmen of our Institute.
The most notable of our performance was
the Senior Fours. This crew with an average
of only about 20 years, rising to the occasion,
smashed all previous records to secure a convincing victory over the two fancied club representative crews in the semi-finals (with a
timing of 3 min. 5.z sec.) clipping about five
seconds from the previous record.
This shock defe'lt of the club crews at the
h~ds of a relatively inexperienced crew
came as a surprise to many. But Kapali Shastri
the club Vice-Captain and chief coach and well
wisher of the IIT crew was nonchalant with
an 'I told you so ' air about him.
This crew which stole thunder from other
competitors represented the Madras Boat
Club at Colombo at the 99th Annual Regatta
of the Amateur Rowing Association of the East
(ARAE). Incidentally this is the first time the
club sent a college crew intact to represent the club at this prestige earning Regatta.
Let me introduce to you the members of
the crew. Stroke: John Ebenezer Thiagarajar Sargunar. Affectionately known by all
as Ebbie. Tbis lean and wiry six footer
weighs 13S Ibs. He took over as the club
stroke where Pritam ' Pindu ' Kapur left off.
Though the job of the Stroke is the most difficult one, he is supposed to keep the rating and
guide the other crew members; Ebbie
pulls off this job with finesse. He was
recently awarded the 1956 cup for the best
oarsman in Madras. This was in recognition
of his achievement in winning all the senior
events in the Cold Weather Regatta, the
Sculls, Pairs (with the Bow of the fours,
Nayyar) and of cour~e the fours. Ebbie is a
fourth year student of L. C. and plays the
guitar for the Beat-X. His talent for designing
and assembling powerful electronic amplifiers
that do not work is well known.
He is best known as the Don Juan of the
Club. Every Regatta, a touch of color and
glamour is added by a bevy of beautiful girls
rooting for IIT with their high pitched voices.
These young ladies are especially brought from
the city colleges by Ebbie.
Let us now turn to the three of the boat:
Three-Umesh Dutta.
This powerful (5' 102-". 130 lb.) hails from
Punjab. He is best known for his innumerable . projects, (his latest is a' Helium Neon
Laser) as well as for his abilities to doze off in
everybody else's room around the hostel except his own. Umesh is a Third year L. C.
student, and has the stamina of a horse.
He is a long distance runner also. One
of his many idiosyncrasies is to take a

CA.MPASTI M ES
long r~n after ~ hard. rowing session, when
everybody else ·including himself is dead
beat. Du~ta's shorts are a byword in the
club. . Rumours have that it originally was
white but frankly, 1 have my doubts about it.
Umesh is the so-called Engine Room of the
boat and his motto is Never Say Die. He has
won enough Merit badges from the club to
last him a life-time. He recently won the
Maiden Sculls with a record timing as well as
the Maiden pairs with· the two of the boat
Vijay Reddy.
.
Two: Thamballapali Nallapa Reddy Vijaynarayana Reddy. The lengtp. of Vijay's name
is only comparable with that of Ebbie's. He is
a soft spoken man and is the two of the
boat. Though he started rowing only about
nine months ago, his progress has been phenomenal. From being the weak point of the
boat he is now the most reliable member of
the crew and his superior style makes him the
other mem!>er of the Engine Room, with
Urnesh (With whom he won the Maiden
Pairs).
Vijay is a fourth year chemical Engineering student, and is brilliant at it. His name
appears in the Merit Scholarship List yeo.r
after year. He also stood second in the First
Year.
He stands six feet in his socks and weighs
128 lb.
Though Viiay has yet to win a Sculls race,
we are sure, he will very soon make up this
deficiency.
Bow: Arun Nayyar.
Arun is the seniormost member of the
boat. He is a final year mechanical engineering student, and this might be the last regatta
he takes part in as a student member of the
Madras Boat Club.
Arun is S'9 H tall and weighs 136 lb.
He is as powerful as an ox and is a very
popular member of the club. He is known to
have taken part in as many as six races in one
evening and remain as fresh as a daisy at the
end and ready for more.
His phenomenal power keeps him going
even when the rest of the crew members can
take no more. Arun was unlucky to lose in
the semi-finals of the seniors sculls but in the
.quarter finals he showed farc prese;lce of mind
to avoid a collison with a ferry boat, going on
to win the race. He of cOurse won his junior
sculls and the senior pairs.
The bow of the boat is responsible for keeping the balance, and so far nobody has ever
complained for the lack of it.
' ac '

(CQlltinued from page 2 co/ou,nn 3)
them. May be we better start raising
pigeons instead of raising haberdashery. hen
coops, kids-instead of raising-help I'm
stuttering I
One reasOn why the home has lost so much
inflation, infatuation-Who ain't fat ?-im1'ortance, I.mean: is that.in gold stays, .bold
ways, old days married couph s used to-used
to-well, some of them did' Married couple
used to stay home and raise kids. Now they
read papers, go to the movies, listen to the
radio,-Now they do other things like suffer
chills, taking spills, pay their bills.

The Victorious Four :(from L to R) Dutta, Nayyar, Ebby, & Reddy.

7
Anyway, children are; sl19rt or fat, tali·· or
skinny, large or small thai '(s~'1 mean more ·or
l~ss of a novelty aro~nd the ,hearse, that is
hk~ a ~orse-I mean 'around the 'house.
Children ~re that way, I know. A little bird
came then the back door and told::me-it was
in the papers-everybody knows. I used to
be one myself-a little child.
.
Any modest dimple-drooling doodlemodern couple-who today undertakerbury the hatchet-you might as well laugh
you roan't take it with you I Any couple
who today undertakes to have . a family
of ten, twenty, thirty, forty-or five children
or more is looked upon as lacking in bonds in
the bank, rocks in the head, what is good for
a headac)1e? Yea)l, somethi-n.g's wrong with
them; they aint got no !irlllture like yours
and mine.
Today a young couple would rather-would
rather-some would, some do; Most of them
don't though. They would rathee go out and
play skittles, hid-go-seek hard to get. They
love to play, they kids of oues ! Thev would
rather go. out and play poke the hankey~:-­
er that IS, poke him. No. I mean poker.
R;ather .pl~y ppker than stay home and : ~wat
fhes, .run 'Jerrand-time I-what time is it?
That IS Wll3t I mean, watch over tl\e kids. .
They are not even half, baked:-not fool
proof-not at home-they don't know aoy~hing about taking care of a furnace I I mean
these modern couple~ are not even good
power players.
Ah, for a return to the hare-brained ways
the golden ray~, meatless Tuesdays, Waterle~~
Thursdays, wlreless Fridays, moneyless paydays I AIt, the good old days. How I loved
them I No wonder they say love is a blonde
l?ve is bloom, love is great stuff something
like a sand bag-er-that is I mean love is big
and blind I
In all, it has been a round pig in a square
hole--er-a square peg in a round hole-no-a sq~are ~ole in a round peg-Ah, some
peg In some hole, who's bothered? (Ed. The
readers are. \)
kvrm.

SPOILS FROM 'RE

THE RIVER
Since that day, two years ago Pritham
Kapoor shipped his considerable rest'mass over
Adyar river at a greater speed than anyone
else from all over India and Ceylon could, IIT
has had her say at the Madras Boat Club.
This season the polite presence, turned into a
noisy domination as our oarsmen pushed boat
after boat to victory.
As Ebbie went upto receive his cup for the
'best Oarsman' a club committee member
booed in righteous frustration. The club
mantelpiece had become all but empty.
Setting the pace on the final day, of the cold
weather Regatta, Umesh Dutta broke the club
record at the neck in the maiden-sculls event.
He was awarded a merit badge, the first to be
awarded, for his timing of 2 min 39 sec., in
the last Regatta. Later in the afternoon he
paired up with Vijay Reddy to win the maiden
pairs easily. Arun Nayyar won the Junior
~culls event for the second Regatta in success':'
Ion. Fresl>.man Naidu stroked his mixed
fours to a close victory in the event.
Ebbie, for long out of practice got back
enough of his rhythm to win the Senior Sculls
hands down. In the last race of evening,
Ebbie and .NayYar, though tired after their
earlier races, had no difficulty finishing well
ahead of their opponents.
It was however the Paper weight (average
weight 135 lb.) fours team of Ebbie Dutta
Reddy and Nayyar that punched the stamp of
IIT on .the Regatta. Still smarting from their
defeat m the last Regatta by the Engineering
College, a deter-mined four left behind two
senior crews of the club for the most coveted
trophy of the year. Putting up a slick 40
stroke rating over the best part of the 1000
~rd cours~, the foursome won the final by
more than '3 lengths. They also won themselves a trip to Colombo to compete in the
Amateur Rowing Association of the Cast
Annual Regatta.
VR.

