s:..A ,M p,.A S 1. LM~.E..S.
we were poor chastisers, Running, hiding,
and cursing as our outraged slave unleashed
her blind forces in rebellion, We were clearly
no match for the 100 km. gus.t~Jrom the bay.
With the hostels in darknes~",. !,water ta,nks
emptied. radios silenced. phones 'Q.ead;"mtivi~s
closed and exams canceIled~ life in the
campus was set back a thousand years.. in,
evolution. \Ve had been brought. to 0lir'
knees.

, Save those', dieh~rds \~hose, itin.erarY, .

One More Letter'
from Germa:ny

of

tray.~t' betw.een aClY twQ. p,oint!5 on t.he campt.!-S

alwaYs includeli a' qUick, llopeful ,peep ,into

AJs one of the first ,graduatesJrom,.the JIT,
the,,\wrkshops, the people and things in the
Madras (actually '1 belong to the sicfind;.s~t..
Institute'seem to be', in general, unrUffled. by
of graduates tl1at. got the sacred" p,ip,lpl'na 'in
the presence of 20 strong women's contingent
April 1965), I b~li~ve, it is my'duty"t.o report
fl.'pm the" outsid~ worlq,,: Bl!.l<'\ev- ·Singh" an4
my experiences as a .full-fledg~d ,E:ngineer to
fl;>lated"hanalities continue to be the ,chief.
my teachers as well 'a!ido' my' juniors. It is
sus~ainefll of a typical lIT tan's conscious,nes~
true that we doubted the need of certain
of humour. ,Food for gossip is still threatensubjects included in the curriculum :when we
ingly, rare except when, Some bright private
were at lIT. :But how amazingly useful these
generously publishes his dreams in this
turned out to be later on. As some of my
tabloid, usually, under ,some harmless
colleagues or seniors have already pointed out
Sardarji's name.
in some of the lIT publications, the IITians
Very sadistically, the 'Yomen's hostel has
never felt that they lacked anything, whatever
been tucked a,wa-y in a corner, in the process
line they chose to adopt. This fact' should
discouraging, many a potential evening
give enough confidence to our successors.
walker ,(and: night walker). Actually most
'As I Srini' (that's how Nageshwar is caned
people oilly know the, general direction of
at HP) has already written about the general
the hostel. Every, morning at 7.30' the
life at this place, I think I will. confine my
Amazona emerge in two main streams, one
letter to saying about my job here, mainly
through the hushes near the dispensary and
since I happen to be attached to a department
the other by the longer but surer route via
other than that of Srini. 1 was offered empthe ex-Gajendra ,Circle. Their .work. done
loyment by the famous Hewlett-Packard Co.
they hit the home trial at 3'45 sharp, like silk
at their West German plant, thanks to the
worms retreating to their cocoons, only to
good work performed by my seniors Shri
re-emerge the next day.
R. Venkateswaran and Shri Srinivas NageshDo they come to ,the tennis court? They
ought to come. to cheer at least. They don't
seem to realize their own cheer value. Do rOWA'RDS PROSPERITY
they come to any of our cozy lness hall hostel
functions. jf only to know their classmates
better t Let them have a function at their,
hostel, and the response from this side will
have to be seen to be believed. To oorrow
a piece from Nandaji's famous letter to the
P.M•• this is clearly a case of' unreciprocated
curiosity' (delta unsolicited, perhaps ?).

*

..

*

*

.

*

-K. S.

KmsHNAMURTHY.

£""

Sf~el QHd lertfflztr p{""t "" Indi"_.

*

For ,onCe our paradoxical dry rivers,
Kri.'ihna to ~lakananda without exception,
had water ,flowing through: the concretes,
sneaking under the doors. bubbling through _
the badly made windows, flooding the rooms
and driving us out homeless into the fury
outside. The stunned innocents of Ganga
witnessed the rebirth of • Sivaganga' in their
common rOOm. One smart explorer later
dramatically proved that this was no miracle
from the heavens but only a fistwide hole
connecting the common and the ceU~r. He
proved that an observer with his face to the
test spot, could be made sufficiendy hostiie
by projecting water at a suffic.iently high
velocity from blow.

*,

Our group just successfully completed, the
prototype of an Instrument under development. It is to be released in' the Summer
of 1967.

GERMANY helps 95 countries
throughout the world in th~ fight for- food,
education, health and industrialisation.

For a full fortnight, this monsoon, as in
the last monsoon and the monsoons,-before
that, as will be next monsoon and monsoons , . . . . . - - - - - - - - . . , Medlc(Jl centre in tire F",
after that, the teachers and students of IIT
set aside their legitima~e business of pursuit,
of knowledge to sharpen their wits and skills
and to face each other in a barbarian festival,
called the terminal examinations. This is,
the time of atonement for that harmless
snooze in the last bench. This is the season
of harvest for those unending hours of agony
in the first bench. This is the time when
reasonable men sit in judgement on other
more reasonable men to pass their decree.

, , -*

war, at the same firm. I jqined ~s a Circ,q,it
Desigr,\ Engineer in the ~~~'~~~:~hdt.~_ev~'i
lopment department and was-assigned,. to· ~t'n&Electr6-acoustic group. The activities of an
R&D Engineer consist of designing, developing and producing Electronic Instruments
of High precision and quality. The set-up is
like this: There is an Engineering Manager
under whom work the leaders of different
sections or groups for Electro-acoustics,
Digital systems, Medical Electronics and so
on. Each group has a number of programmes
for new instruments. Each instrument bas
to be developed by a group of Engineers
under a Project Leader. 1 am one of such
Engineers. Each Engineer is asked to Design
and perfect a part Or parts of the instrument
unde~ ;,r;:pnside~~tiQ~., ·,·H~l).ce ,the first stage
ofth"e' job' is "1:0' d~sign the .cheapest and best
circuit, after duly- taking into consideration
temperature effects etc., that might affect the
quality of working. Then one has to design
the printed circuit lay-out for the same, get
into touch with other departments hI the
factor~ in discussipg about production of the
iristrument' etc.
'
Believe'me. the work as an R&D Engineer
here is not a mere mathematical jugglery' or it
Slide Rule contest. One gets the experience
of seeing the instrument through the processes
of design, development and fabrication. 'If is
a rare opportunity to learn how .various
departments are co~ordinated and how differ...
ent sets of people come into the picture,.at th~
right plac.e and, at the right time.

*,

As the Homo Sapiens, as the Peking Man
and as the near ape, the human being lived
on the" grac~ of ,Nature-eating her fruit,
suffering her tortures, thriving on her genorosity. Today, we, his descendants like to
believe that with the powerful weapoqs of
science, we ,are the masters of the; ~ler,nentl!i,
the lords of th~ 'planetS. We; as engineers and
scientists, have always claimed to he the frQnt,
Hnkers in this, chastisement of Nature, (or
the pleasure of Mankind. That Thursday

Wester" Germany suPPOrts at present 2774 projtc:l5
.. II Uffr rhe world, The Federal Goyernment as well
private imlu5tr~ and social instilutions provide
c.. pilal. experts. knllw·l1l1ll lind equipment,

Some out$tanding projects

or indo· German cooperation aro

liS

India .Geellles by far the Il'rgest sbare of the
world· wide German aid-nearly one tbird of the total.

No other country-except the U.S.A-has gifers It
:-u~e~=~~~Dte to Judia as the Felera, Re,,,1I1ic

• The Inlensille Agriculture Programme Mandl,
the most successful of its kind in the countrr.
• The Indian tnstituu: ofTce!lnololn', Madra5,
GermanY's lugest Technical AS$istance pro~.
• Rourkela, the moS( &IIOderu treeJ plalU

ill South Asia.

INDIA ANI! GERMANY"- FRIENDS AND PARTNERS FOR PROGRESS'!

