10

Jazz from West
Germany in the I.I.T.
The.·OAT was a scene of music, color and
gaiety on the evening of Friday the 25th
November.. Rolf~Hans Mueller and his stal~
wart German Dance Orchestra held the
audience (consisting of olLr residents of our
campus together with a bus~load·and-a·half of
outsiders from the W.C.C. and Cultural
Academy), spellbound for a good two hours.
It . was wonderful to see the IITian, normally
a dissatisfied grumbling grouse, full of life and
cheerfulness.
Allow me to digress a while. at this juncture
to comment on a small incident which though
might not seem important to an IITian, does
present a distasteful image of him to the outsiders. We must remember that we are
students.-in one of the leading technological
insdtutions in this country and sailors who
have been away at sea for some months. While
wO'lf.;.whistling at women by sailors may be
tolerated (mainly in movies from Hollywood)
it is certainly not good form for an UTian
to wolf-whistle at women from some of the
city. colleges when they come to this campus
or anywhere else for that matter. Apprecia~
tion for feminine beauty can be expressed in
a more dignified way, surely I In one of the
lIT entrance examination question papers (in
English) there appeared a sentence • you can
always recognize an IITian from his good
bearing and behaviour.' Let us live up to this
reputation.
Returning to the main topic, the Jazz and
other· forms of music played by Rolf-Hans
Mueller and his group can be described only
in superlatives. Their showmanship was
superb and the audience couJd feel the liveli·
ness the group generated•.
In addition to the instrumentalists, there
were two excellent singers-the man and
wife pair of Wyn Hoop and Andrea Horn.
The latter with her wonderful singing voice
and her cutaway dress quite killed the
audience with her rendering of 'Hello Dolly! I
and 'Macky Messer'. Some uf the folk
songs sung by the combination called for
audience participation and IITian audience
(atways equal to aU occasions) participated
with enthusiasm.
It was difficult to pin·point one individual
or one song as the hest of the evening's programme. All of them were very good and
. thorougb.ly enjoyable, more so because the
numbers were not difficult to understand and
quite It few of them were familiar tunes to the
at the piano,
audience.
Dieter Reith

[Decemb~r.,

CAMPASTIMES
Gerd Husemann on the a1to~fl.ute, to mention
only two of the many (1 don't know·the other
names), were superb, and the melodies played
by the Black Forest Musicians were a hit with
the audience. Every programme 0; Jazz must
have a drum solo item and that played by the
drummer witQ. a different type of beat was
scintillating.
The group-within-the-group, the Dieter
Reith Combo, played two excellent numbers
, I found a new baby' and « The Theme' and
the applause soared sky~high-(as was possible
in the open·air-theatre). A surprise item was
the orchestra's rendering of a familiar Hindi
tune ( Yeh Mera Prem Patra ' to jazz music.
The programme ended as all good things
must, on a quiet note with' Auf Wiedersehen'.
The Gymkhana must be thanked for making it possible for the orchestra to come to the
IlT and the organisers must be complimented
on the efficient way that the arrangements
Were made. Mercifully, the mikes did not
give any trouble throughout the evening.
C.N.S.
WHAT ABOUT INDIA?
What is that?

That is an automobile.
What does an automobiJe do ?
An automobile burns.
Does it burn because of the internal
combustion engine?
No. It burns because of the Psychology
of the Indian adolescence. It burns
because it feels.
So much for the cow.
And what on earth is a cow?
It is the Kamadhenu (not the Supermarket
in Madras)
What does a cow do ?
It sets the capital on fue.
AU human raCes have at sometime or other
in their history worshipped animals and paid
them the homage generally reserved for deities.
Animal worship had its origin either in fear of
animal Of in the belief that the human soul
returns to the earth in the form of an animal
and to injure that animal might mean injuring
one's own grandmother or parent. The
sacred bull was worshipped by anoient Egyptians. It was kept in a temple and its birthday was celebrated every year by the people.
When· the bull died, it was embalmed and
buried in a splendid sarcophagus in a
special part of the temple, and the death was
followed by public mourning. The Ainu race,
tribe found Japanese in islands, to the day wor~
ship bears, as did American Indians. Chinese
worshipped dragons and adopted the dragon
as a symbol on the imperial emblem.

1906

Romans worshipped geese. The sacred geese
once saved the city of Rome by crying an
alarm that awakened the soldiers as the Gauls
were making a surprjse attack at night." In
the fight .the Gauls were decisiv.ely beaten.
Snakes ate worshipped by the Hopi-Indians
of America who are famous for their snake
dances. The white elephant is worshipped in
Siam. The phondx, a fabulous bird, was
worshipped ill Egypt. The staty was that
only one phoenix lived in the country at a
time and it lived to be five hundred years old.
When ready to die it built itself a funeral pyre
of dried gra~s and twigs. Here it settled and
managed to set the pyre afire so that it was
cremated. From the ashes came forth a little
worm that grew to be a succeeding phoenix.
Tu.rning to Hindu mythology one will find
that almost all the animals and birds are
sacred. Every animal is associated with one
God or another. Lord Shiva wears serpents.
around his neck and Lord Rama won his
battle because of Hanuman.
According to Mohammedan faith certain
animals have a free passport even to.
Heaven. The dog Kratim of the Seven
Sleepers of Epheus; Balaam's ass, which re·
proved the Prophet, Solomon's ant, which
reproved the sluggard; Jonah's whale, which
swallowed .him ; the ram of Israel, offered in
sacrifice
Abraham in place of Isaac, the
camel of Saleh; the cuckoo of Belkis ; the ox
of Moses; Ai Borak, which conveyed Moham~
med to Heaven, and the ass on which the
Saviour rode in to Jerusalem, have won the
right of entry into the Heaven.
Should the Indians start an anti-ass, antilion, anti·sepent etc. slaughter campaign for
reasons which have their bearings on various
sentimental or religious issues, and continue
to loose their lives as a result of a fast unto
death • or the police firing,' SOon India would
be full of starving animals and naked human
beings with empty stomachs. Times have
changed. Religion and the allied courses are
no dQubt noble, but what an Indian living in
the twentieth century bas to consider as a true
citizen or a secular state is the relative importance of various causes he supports.
Religion is a strong aspect of social life. Only
in the recent past we saw how a single statement from the very popular singing group of
England turned them most unpopular overnight. But, lwhat 1 have to ask an Indian (not
discriminating him based on any caste, creed or
religion) is, should he necessarily kill or be
killed for the sake of an animal?
Wen, the animals and in particulal'tl\e cows
are safe. but WHAT ABOUT INDIA? .

br

Iwrm.

The German Orchestra

14t: Andrea Horn and Wyn Hoop:' Made for each pther 1

Edited by'M,' G. Subrahmanyam, published by Prof. S. Sampatb, and printed by V. M. Philip at tb.e Diocesan Press, Madras, for Indian Institute 91 'X'echnology, Madras.

