saying.

(Bring me a coffee, will you?) If there

is one thing I deplore, it is this lack of attention.

No one listens.

There is a theory that no

event occurs unless an observer is present, is
tnere not? Spare me the details. Similarly, no

"0

word.
utterance is real if it hli.s not a listener. I don't mean a hearer. Ho''1 on ea!'t h do you
expect these tableR to benefit from my wisdom? foIy
words, remember, are not mine but poster.ity's.
You have to go? You're late for class? Very well.
Ah, my coffee.

Thank you.

Have 70u noticed this revolting -tendency of the
public to sweeten its coffee to tls point of nausea?
Don't ap.ologize. Your intentions were horourable,
and you're assuredly on the path paved with those
sentiments. I do not like to moralize; I admit that
my staLdards far exceed those of martyrdom; '1 shall
thereiore say nothing. I have used the tactic to
good effect on several occasions. - You seem surp-

worse?

~ou

wish to retire to bed?

A sound policy_

There i8 no one left to talk to.

I shall

visit the common rOom: the common room boy atleast
is always to be f~d there. And he is the perfect
listener.

He does not understand English.

Now, to keep in touch, 1 shall soliloquize ••••
V "4l~ ~ Na mbL.Sctn.

• • •

DN NAmr:S AND
NAm£SO'+~DS
._------- -------It may be argued vehemently that in a
world

ove~r;~ri~n

by the identity crisis,

nameboards cannot be out of place. Even that
enduring Shakespearean adage, 'What's in a
name? The rose would smell as sweet DY any
other

name'~

Can do little to dilute the

significance of names. Shakespeare's appar-

rised.

ent trivialization of the notion can however"

Oh, do you hsve to go class too? You have a
headache? I am sorry, but I cannot help feeling it
is your fault. Half-probably more-these modern ills

be only justified in a fanciful context.

are the I"esul t of repressions. You attempt to control yourself in all kinds cfbarbaric ways, you bind
your metaphorical feeb. If yo~ wish to express
yourself, do not be afraid of doing so. But in
moderation, always in moderation - do not take the
risk of being called a windbag. Your headache is

The thrust of modern thinking would discount
the devaluation of the 'name' factor.
Besides, Shakespeare did not veto

names

altogether. He was only not convinced of the
intrinsic worth of any particular name.
What's more! he lived in an age characterize

