o
was even found to be an appropriate embellishment for such a non-contributing Department!

also breached the citadel of male chauvinism!
In one deft stroke, they have liquidated my
name and demoted and antiquated my husband·!

So, after a similar long bleak spell
during which the identity crisis was unhinging the mind and breaking the spirit of the
faculty, the Head of the Department was
called upon to take drastic steps to rectify
a desperate situationo He acted swiftly and
nameboards went up at an astonishing speed.
The crisis was dissolved and self-confidence
restored. But, unfortunately, the general
gaiety left me untouched. I noticed they
had made a clownish representation of my
name as follows - ELIZABETHN KURIAN. The
very fact that the letter 'N' is not preceded by a blank space and followed by a
dot turns my name from a noun into an adjective as is evident in an act of rapid reading
when Elizabeth and N would merge to result in
the e~ithet 'Elizabethan'. The unwitting
malice of man had devised a double-edged
weapon in that innocuous-looking name-board,
because the unkindest cut had been reserved
for Dr.Kurian. Even Prince Philip the consort
of the Queen of England walks only a step
behind the Queen o But Dr.Kurian who has.
turned 'Elizabethan' has been apparently
p~t 300 years behind his wife. They have thus
.qed him. to a blinking anachronism and

Do you now wonder why I feel constrained
to do some rethinking on the apparently
inviolable theme of names and name boards?
If my words lack credibility, I would u~ge
the reader to take a stroll to the Humanities
Department!
t'l1S .. EU~abeth kLl"fictn.

~~ ~~~~ J_c.!:!.,=-~JL

No, no more movies for me! Is it I, who
usually miss no movie, who idolise the
superstar, who spare no effort to imitate
him (and at what cost!) speaking, you ask.
You stare at me as you would have if you
had heard Einstein say in his deathbed that
all relativity was humbug and he had all
along been joking. Yes, you have reason to
stare hard and intensely at me. You seek an
explanation and I am going to give you one,
though the mental torture it would subject
me to is greato
Knowing how romantic and crazy about
movies I am, you will not he surprised to
hear that I decided to do, in real life,
what the superstar does in every film he
acts o I am not all that handsome (or strong)
but so isn't the superstaro If he can win
the heart of any lovely girl in films, so

