9
can I, I reasoned o
I scouted till I found the girlo Then
I set about the business in right earnest o
The first step would be to ~~~ a chance
meeting with hero And did I meet her! The
next day, I followed her all the way from
her house to the busiest thoroughfare in the
city. Twice she turned and I blushed, tried
to smile but couldn't manage anything better
than a sheepish grin. Increasing her pace,
she went into a nearby shopo I waited for a
while and unable to contain myself any longer
lest I lose my chance, I walked right in
straight into Madame Dracula herself. The
massive lady lifted me up by my collar and
growled, "what business have you here?"
Trembling within, but anxious to put up a
brave front before my lady love, (who was
watching me with mild interest from under
a metallic cocoon)o I countered weakly,
'Do you, my dear lady, know th~t we are in
free India and I have every right to go
anywhere I please?"MmeoDracula said, 'Ha!'
and glanced significantly at Juliet who,
in turn, glanced conspiratorially and a
shade more significantly at Mme.D o The
next thing, I found myself being propelled
at an astronomical spe~d out into the streets o
A good bouncer that! As I sorted myself out,

I chanced to see the now-mysteriouslyconspicuous sign plate "MADAME LOUISE I S
BEAUTY PARLOUR - FOR LADIES ONLY". I dusted
myself and walked away furtively. Well,
given that circumstance, even the superstar
couldn't have done better o
I did not give upo Next in line would
be a song. When I chanced to see Miss.J
the next day in a secluded corner of the
park, I plunged straight into the job at
hand o I began humming a popular tune and
got so carried away that I started to sing
aloud and dance to the tune weaving intricate patterns around hero This had not gone
on for more than a minute when I heard a
vaguely familiar whistle-a Policeman's,
Caution getting the better of courage and
the urge for self-preservation blinding
my senses, I rano Yes, you guessed it right,
straight into the guardian of the lawo It
was a full fifteen minutes before he and
the crowd finished with me o
Love conquers it all. Even a week had
not passed before I was in business again,
my body sufficiently patched up. On one of
my evening prowls, I saw my lady love and
my god, she was being followed. The two
things, walking only a few paces behind
arm in arm, kept dogging her foot steps

