rf

j

~ntakes

carcinoge~s

are loaded with potent
rhe fact that under such adverse ~onditionso
~e do not need to form spores to exist,
Ileaves the Prize Committee little choice but
~o hand it to us. (For greater insight
linto our hariness - read-(i) 'A strong
ase for the Survival of Homo Zapiens with
No Water' - Dr~alayalam, Water Supply
Board, Madras; (ii) 'Unusuolo Creaturoli
T'?sts to Dp"T'I"....'..,+'!"~t.~ their Natural Imrnuni tv
Against Poisons '-Dr.Zeroe Watte I , Manager,
Nutrition Oept o , IITM)o

~

But below this hardy outer facade lies
the ~intessence of our beings. We really
are an amiable bunch of fun loving softies,
capable of amazing flashes of brillianoe
that surprise us more than it does anyone
else' o We have a voracious appetite for
that gourmandts delight called The Textbook
(the cheaper off-the-shelf KGB versions
are quite populat). We delight in trashy
fast-foods like Notes as well. When prodded
from above, we m~ke oodles of noise - but
rarely bite back! Our adaptability to a
rapidly changing, often hostile environment is amazing (If you want to know how
nice we are - R£f: 'Why we are Nice A Psychological Approach' - OroRita Ghat~kus,
Psychoanalyst, IITM; Dr.Joy Thomasum,

Dept of Nice People, IITM)o
In short, you could say we are not
ordinary! !

POST SCRIPI:
I apologize for any inconvinience
caused o This is purely a piece of fiction
and any resemblance of the characters to
anyone dead or alive is purely coinciaen~a~.
MCA kol m J. I~"thcq=;'i
(This seems to be the season for coincidences!

- Editors)
GOiNC::.s GOfNb·, GONE •••
------------

I opened my bedroom window - a window
overlooking a doghouse in the yardo It had
once been the home of a piebald (black and
white) dog. My dog, Frisky. Today, a little
cross marked the spot where a dog died,
doing his dutyo
Memories of a fateful Friday in
September, nearly three years ago: A boy
clutching his satchel, going to school o
Soon, his mother following - off to work o
Then, after locking up the house, his
father - college bound. For Frisky, this
was nothing unusual o He'd guard the house

