I

itill

its occupants returned. But today
I the hands of Fate were at work o A wall was
: being erected in the backyard. We didn't
iwant Frisky to run out of the yard so
he was chained upo Frisky didn't mind this
much. His usually followed Snoopy's method
of conserving energy by going to sleepo
But someone had left the front gate open.
The neighbours were woken up from their
mid afternoon Siesta by the snarls, growls
and yelps in a furious dogfighto Peeping
over the wall, they saw a horrible sight.
Frisky, chained and bleeding, was battling
with a large, red-eyed, salivating dog a dog with rabies o But Frisky had never
lacked fighting spirit and he drove away
the intruder long before a frantic phone
caller brought my father racing home.
But at what cost? The vet said rabies
was inevitable o Was this the way it was
ail going to end? After ten years as a
faithful, lovable bundle of warmth and
affection, was Frisky to be put to sleep?
To die at the hands of those he loved and
trusted?
Changing images - flashed by our eyes.
Run over by a jeep, a mouthful of insecticide:

Frisky had survived them though the odds
had been against him. Why not this time
Couldn't we give him that last chance?
But it was not to be.
Frisky looked up from the bowl of milk.
he loved so much o His eyes, so t,rue, so
faithful, voiced his thanks o Little did
he realize the perfidy of the band that fea
him. For the milk was liberally laced with
sleeping pillso But Frisky's will to survive
was strong. My heart gave a leap when I
saw the drugs had no effect on him. But it
was hope in vain o The last chance he was
fighting for was still denied to him. More
milk, more drugs; another betrayal o A
drowsy stupor. And then the vet with that
lethal injection. But Frisky fighting
sleep, opened his eyes o True and faithful o
Yet puzzled-who are these people trying
to disturb me, muzzle me? A final efforthe bared his teeth; but sleep overcame
him once more o Before his eyes closed, he
looked at me, confident that I wouldn't
let any harm befall himo I couldn't meet
his gaze. I had completely misplaced bis
trust in me, repaid his years of love
and faithfullness with betrayalo The needle

