Date: 4.4.1981.

Issue No. 10
EDITORIAL

RAG is having a pretty lean time nowadays in spite
of the BEST ARTICLE COMPETITION, and there isn't much entbu for
contributing articles. Amyway there will be only 2 more issues
(Nos. 11 and 12) dated 11.4.'81 and 18.4.'81. As promised the last
issue will bear accounts of how MANDAK RAG money was spent.
~NDAK

During Mardi Gras, a number of examination boards (pads)
were borrowed by Dimple from inmates of our hostel to be used for
judging MG quiz and Western Music. These were collected by Vivek
Krisna De, an MG volunteer. And believe it or not, these pads
haven't yet been returned. Having borrowed the pads, they should
have returned the same to their generous owners without inconveniencing them. Indeed it is a shame.
Our hostel has had a number of achievements during this
week.
Shekhar was judged MR. I.I.T. on Saturday morning. Those
of you who haven't seen his muscles have re~11y missed something.
Shekhar was first interested in exercise about 2 years ago. He
began weightlifting and a little bit of Bullworker. He was
Mr. Vivekananda Colrege and came 2nd in the Madras Division competition. According to Shekhar, the gym in lIT is not good. 'I
cannot do my weightlifting regularly in lIT. The gym is very often
closed an~ getting the key is rather painful. So I go about 3-4
times a week in the evenings and do my emercises. It takes only
45 minutes.
It is not all that painful as you might think. In fact it's fun if one has a little enthu and interest.'
In the inter hostel skating relay, Mandak came first. The
team consisted of Duggal, Mukund, Nicky and Dipi. Duggal got off
to a slow start but did very well to hand over the baton to Mukund,
falling over in the process. In the meantime, Saras had a toss,
leaving only Mandak and Godav in the fray. Nicky did well to forge
into the lead and Dipi effortlessly maintained it to win.
Good work, boys!
The one-member swimming team of Mandak did wonders at the
Anna pool where the inter-hostel competitions were held. Ashvin
won 3 silvers - 2nd in 100 m breast stroke, 200 m breast stroke
and 1500 m free style.
In the hammer throw, during Sports Day, Ranganathan of Mandak
came first.
The movie in Mandak on Friday, 'Taxi Driver', was extremely
shady. In the words of AS, 'Everything was going on fine till
suddenly the names and cast started appearing. I was zappe~!'
Please note

th~t

we are extending the last day for the

£~~!~~! to ~E!~~lL_~EE!1_!Q.

******

~!~E2

