- 2 -

'Miss-Identity'
Vivekkrishna De.
R~rely, and even more rarely for an ordinary lIT student, som~
really spicy occasions happen to come along. Sorry, if I have been
somewhat mysterious and left you guessing. I should hurry to let
you know that it is not a blossomming romance, as lIT is the last
place in the universe having even a reasonable flair of romance.
In case some of you are desperately ro~antic, and have already been
cornered, I cannot help pitying you. But it is tima that I stop
beating around the bush. It just happened that day, the day which
I think is not yet forgotten.
It was slightly more colourful than the ordinary ones, not in
the sense t~at the sky had more bluish tinges ar the leaves wore a
livelier green, or the Sarayu chicks (cheeks!) were more crimson,
but due to the simple fact that the IITians were spared of their
daily chores. It was the evening session of the final day of MG81, and an overenthusiastic volunteer, which was I, was sauntering
around the canteen in a reckless bid to catth hold of some worthy
job. And you know, then it haprened, just happened. Suddenly, I
saw the omni~resent Social and Cultutal Affairs Sec. beckoning to
me. 'Is it really me?', I wondered in bewilderment, But it was.
It was I and I alone. I smelt adventurism and walked up to him with
steady strides and a face beaming with expectation. tAre you a 1st
year?', was his curtly shot out question. I was taken aback. fDo
I look like a final year student?', I exclaimed to myself inadvertently, fingering my juvenile moustac~e. But I was aftaid of losing
a chance to prove/myself a worthy volunteer. So, forcing a winsome
smile on my lips, I almost whispered in a soft, soothing and shaky
tome, t Oh, yeah, I am.'
Then came the immediate rep~y, 'Aad are you a volunteer?'
And you can just imagine how emaarrassing and discouraging it
can be to a passionate young IITian to be asked if he is a volunteer
on the final day of MG, when he has sweated his heart out on the
volunteering arena for the last four days. It is much more insulting
than asking Pele the shape of a football and slightly less than
doubting that Dr. IndEresan is aware of the grading system, absolute
or relative, being practised of late in lIT Madras.
But I was a harder nut to crack. 'Of course, I am and I would
be very happy to come to your help,' I replied cautiously, at the
same time substantiating my dignified position as a MG volunteer.
WithR the wide grin that he lavishly gives away every now and then,
the frail and bright guy answered, 'I want to entrust you with ••• f
- and, you know, I was off. I was so elated, so exhilarated that I
scarcely paid any attention to the rest of the things he uttered,
except for a few scattered phEases like 'one ••• Lalita Prasad •••
Film Club •.• OAT ••• ladies' toilet •.• locked ••• girls waiting
••• desperately .•. ley lost ••• clamour ••• urgent ••• find •••
quarters .•. behind the post office ••.• ' All along I was so obsequious to him, trying to ensure at every moment that he felt that
I was paying the keenest interest an¥one had ever paid to his words,
that most of what he said escaped my attention. Anywav, being one
in the cream of the student population, it did not take me long to
connect the remnants of the speech. Then, I set off on my bike in
search of the key, with a reassuring ~mile to the perplexed Sec.
While my feet kept on pressing strenously against the pedals,
my mind, with all the reasoning and rationality it could muster,
embarked on an analysis of the problem. to its deepest roots.
Everything seemed all right, except that I wondered whether the
strategically positioned personality holding the key to the ladies'
toflet belonged to the fairer sex or to that of mine. So, by the
time I landed before the above-mentioned quarters, the riddle that
remained unsolved was whether Lalita Prasad was a 'Mr' or a 'Mrs'.
Now I goaded my spear-headed common sense into action. Breaking
the name into two parts - Lalita and Prasad, I saw tbat the 2nd
part must have been a glorious fraternal inheritance, according iMR
to the traditions follow~d in South Indma; and the first one, to
my horror, coaxed me into the conclusion that the above-mentioned
personality must be a 'Mrs'.
So I made my waJ to the 2nd floor of the right building,
pushed the right bell of the right do~r, and a middle-aged, nice

