Campest/mes
Vol. VI, No. 6

IIT Madras, April, I968

25 P.

Physics Seminar
SCIENTISTS EXCHANGE VIEWS
The Institute 'was the nucleus of activity
during the last zceek of February when scores of
physicists from dz'ﬂerent research centres in India
met to speculate, and theorise on that mini dimen-

sioned point at the centre of every atom—the
nucleus.

The occasion :

The symposium on

Nuclear and Solid State Physics organised by
the Atomic Energy Commission.

The Seminar held sixteen sessions in about
twenty-two hours during which several topics
pertaining to both solid state physics and low
energy nuclear physics were discussed.
The nuclear shell model theory was consi~
dcrcd in many sessions. According to
this theory the nucleus is itself made up
of a number of shells at different energy
levels. (It is no
longer considered a
homogenous structure of protons and neutrons.)
This is an extension of the theory of
electronic shells. The shell model structure
for nuclei of different atomic masses were
worked out. A shape analysis of potential
energy barriers around nuclei of various binding energies was also made. Other topics:
Struct‘e studies of light nuclei, photo disinte~
gration, elastic scattering cross-sections, nuclear
On March 13, the whole Institute assembled at the open air theatre to settle accounts for deeds
during the year—to reflect on the past and to plan for the future. The Chief Guest: Dr. Karl
Pfauter, Consul General, Federal Republic of Germany. The photograph shows Dr. Klein, President, welcoming the gathering. More pictures are on page seven.

spectroscopic studies, nuclear ﬁssion studies,
neutron induced reactions. Deuteron-Nucleon
scatteringy' particle

nuclei.

CULTURAL WEEK

H SIICCQSS will) a Difference

interactions on nuclei,

X43; d gamma ray scattering by nuclei, spin
properties and charge distribution and various
models for describing the states of various
Various low energy nuclear reactions

were also studied.
-An interesting lecture-on superconducting
materials which are important from a technological view point was given by Prof. Marshall
Merriam (now at IIT Kanpur), of'the University of California. According to the classical

electron superconductivity theory of Drude
Too long have we regarded our invincibility in inter-collegiate literary and entertainment ﬁelds as an accomplished fact. It was therefore a rude jolt to many when the
Sixth Cultural Week nailed this lie. The time' has come for us to identify, rather
than disguise the maladies which aﬂiict us.

and Lorentz this phenomenon can occur only
at 0° K. Even quantum mechaniCs fails to
explain why superconductivity should occur at
temperatures well above 0°K. For technolo-

gical considerations the important limiting
ALL-INDIA DEBATE
March 4, 1968.
Eleven colleges in the city competed for
the Institute Trophy in the All-India Debate
on March 4. One must compliment the
organisers of the Debate on their choice of
the topic: ‘ India’s salvation lies in the rejection of Gandhian principles ’. Timely, apt
and controversial, it offered ample opportunity
to the cultivated debator. Loyola College
emerged winners in the Debate. Both our
speakers won individual prizes. Lacking in
content, seriousness

and

direction,

their

speeches required sterner judgement. If excellenceindebating is based on sincerity of
outcry, then V. S. Krishnan was convincing
enough ; if it is based on .the responsiveness
of the audience, then Shanker deserves kudos.
But neither of these is half the effect. One
regrets that a debater should run to seed with
meaningless ﬂippancy and casualness of
menu

Other speakers impressed us. P. N. Narayan (Loyola) dealt with the pros and cons
of salvation, T. P. Sampath (A. C. Tech.)
with corruption at administeriai levels,
Chandrasekhar (M.C.C.) with the abuse of
Gandhian principles, and Miss S. Mitrakumari (Stella Marie's) with their applicability
to present day conditions. In the reviewer’s
opinion, T. P. Sampath and S. Mitrakumari
deserved recognition.
Summing up the Debate, Mr. Mohan S.
Kumaramangalam, Chairman, laid bare the
ﬂaws and fallacies in the arguments of the
speakers. He also recounted anecdotes about
Gandhi with emphasis on Gandhi the man,
rather than Gandhi the seer. Earlier, the
Cultural Week was inaugurated by the Direc-

tor, Dr. A. Ramachandran, whc emphasised
the importance of extra-curricular activities

in the Institute.
(Continued on p. 4, col. 2)

properties are critical current, critical ﬁeld
(the superconducting property is curiously
lost for a ﬁeld and current above a certain
value), losses and transition temperatures.
The important question now isto ﬁnd out
whether there 'is an upper limit to the super—
conducting transition temperature (preferably
close to room temperature) and an upper limit
to the critical ﬁeld.
'
An important topic from the engineering view
point was the study of the dependence of the
tensile strength of metals on crystal structure.
By altering or modifying the crystal structure
Russian scientists claim to have increased the

strength of metals to several times the usual
value. Various techniques were described for
conducting such studies and for-locating point

defects and fracture regions in crystal lattices.
Work was also done on determination of
particle and the thermo-electric properties of
Thallium Selenide.
Campastimc: interview with the Delegates
Our ﬁrst question was ‘What is the
(Contd. on p. 2, col. 2)

