April, I968]

CAMPASTIMES

CARICATURE
NEUROTIC ON THE
WARPATH
Or the Modern World and all

that Jazz
Perhaps it would be wise on my part to
warn the reader right away not to expect any
‘Higgins in India ’ Sort of stuff in what
follows, which perhaps wasn’t wise on my part
to attempt in the ﬁrst place.

Nevertheless,

any normal sane person subjected to the
frustrations of life in IIT needs some sort of a
wall to bash his head against and clear his
mind of accumulated poison. It is primarily
in this light that I chose to start this attack on
anything that occurred to me. Moreover, the
Campastimes scout, who came pestering me

for an article, carefully remained on the
strategic side of my room’s window bars.

GEORGE VERGHESE
A tall guy badly in need of a haircut, wearing
a checked lungi and a jazzy shirt, sitting in
the ﬁnal year Mechanical Class, is only one of
the many George Vergheses running loose in
the campus. This one, however, also answers
to the name of ‘ Porki Payyan ’, ‘ Taro ’ and

‘Kurvi Karan ’. A ﬁrm believer in doing
anything for a bet, he once turned up at
Central Station and paraded up and down the
platform, dressed in a loin cloth and wrist
watch, with a monkey on his shoulder, till the
cops threw him out, that is.
Among his interests outside the campus are
the SCM and the plays and fétes held at the
various ladies’ colleges. So keen is he on
these affairs that he even sells tickets for the
. same. Contrary to popular contention, George
claims that he participates in the SCM
activities to feel nearer to the Lord.
He is an ardent fan of all the Hippy and
Beat groups. At entertainment programmes
he has no hesitation in giving vent to his

feelings with blood curdling yells, whenever

Coming ﬁnally to the battleﬁeld, the way
I see it, modern science and technology is
progressing quite aimlessly and rashly. It
would seem that the object of existence boils
down to a continuum of labour-saving devices.
I can understand, though I don’t advocate,
the infradiggishness concerning manual effort;
but when we hand over our mental faculties
as well to machines, we have reached the
nether limits of damnation.

Not in the least bit put out, George who
has a passion for dizzy heights took up
mountain climbing. On his ﬁrst outing in
the Himalayas he did so well that he was
judged the best in his group. The next time
together with Iaikumar, he made headlmes
when they climbed Mt. Shila—a hitherto
unconquered peak.
After this unique feat George returned to
his true love—basketball. Under his astute
leadership the Institute team went- on to pull
03 a ﬁne victory in the --last Inter IIT Meet.

The basketball team has'done admirably well
in all the subsequent matches.
—M. K.

WE WILL GLADLY PUBLISH
YOUR ARTICLES, PROVIDED
WE CAN READ THEM.
Wrile legibly I

Among our most prized possessions today
are our aesthetic sense and the capacity to
reason, create and appreciate, and we ought
not to deprive future generations of these few
remaining pleasures of the mind. We already
have computers doing creative design, composrng poetry and music, choosing marriage
partners and what not. It amazes me that
anyone should commend this sort of thing.
The labour unions which go on strike to prevent employees being displaced by computers
are doing the right thing though for a less
worthy cause.
Apart from computers, as far as mechanization in general is concerned, I am reminded of
a caricature in MAD magazine depicting the
effects on evolution. It pictured a man of the
future as a tiny specimen with his right index
ﬁnger as the only prominent surviving functional element, used of c0urse for pushing
buttons. Elaboration on this point is
needless.
I’ve got one more stone to throw and that
goes to the ﬁeld of medicine, notwithstanding
the likelihood of being branded a misanthrope.
There appears to be a sort of conspiracy to
produce a race of weaklings. They get hold
of a mangled half-dead body from an accident
or the war-front and try him out for a new
face, kidney, lung, heart, etc. The object is
to prolong his misery by ﬁve hours or
ﬁve months for various

The reference here is of course to computers. I don’t know whether they fall into
distinct categories such as calculating, memory
and decision—making machines, but if so the
last type is the worst oﬁ'ender. To take an
example which sounds realistic though it is
not necessarily true, consider the war in
Vietnam. Say a lot of data is fed into a
computer in Washington and it is asked
questions like ‘Are we winning or losing?’
‘Should we advance or retreat or bomb
Hanoi? ’ or worse still, ‘ What should we
do?’ If at least some people, say General
Westmoreland and his staff do not know why
they are ordering a troop concentration in
such and such a place, but merely that Field
Marshal
IBM - 19011 - or - whatever -his name-is, who sits in an air-conditioned
oﬁce is of such and such an opinion, one

would reasonably expect them to go on strike.
Since they haven’t, I trust matters are not all
that had yet.

the show is not to his liking.
George ventured into extracurricular activities in the Campus with active participation
in athletics, basketball, hockey and cheerleading. In due course he gave this up for
N.C.C. (Air wing) and ﬂying. This phase
lasted till he tried to make a three point landing on the Krishna Hostel terrace, after which
his tenure at the flying club came to a
dramatic end.

turn of the century with robots throwing
monkey-nuts at us.

The above illustration probably represents
an extreme case, but it looks like the direction

in which scientiﬁc advancement is taking us
today. Letting any situation get out of
human control is deﬁnitely not advisable.
I think we should set some limits to' the
‘ thinking capacity’ of computers if there is
such a thing, before one of the smarter ones
begins to ‘ think ’ otherwise. There is something particularly macabre about programming
computers to ﬁnd optimum conditions in
solving some types of problems. God knows
what they might be able to optimize_—_possibly
the- destruction of mankind, given suitable
data. I'm not even prepared to count on the
loyalty of computer programmes to the
human race. A thinking machine could be a
dangerous tool in the hands of a power-crazy
individual, more so when it gets out of his
hands.

social,

emotional,

legal and ethical reasons which I won’t
go into now. Worse still is the practice of
keeping alive old people with one foot in the
grave and likewise rich patients whose hypochondria must be nurtured on expensive
drugs.
And the fuss that is made about babies and
the having of babies—ooh my! The need for
hospitals and nurses and disinfectants andso on
merely indicates an increasing physical helplessness in our generation, with due respect to
the fair sex against whom I have nothing
personal. But I say, if a cat can have kittens
without-raising hell about it, why can’t the
civilized women of this century. Formerly
nature used to maintain an optimum level of
infant mortality, not to mention old age
mortality, but now We feel proud of having
created a population problem. In any case
the present degree of dependance on medicines, drugs etc. is shocking, or may be civilization is deﬁned in terms of sensitiveness as
opposed to animal toughness. I’ve never understood it, really.
In all the foregoing prattle about science
making zombies out of us, I have deliberately
ignored the obverse side of the medal because
it is being chucked in our faces all the time
and this is not intended to be a balanced
point of view anyway. No doubt destructive
criticism is very easy, but then how many
people are capable of putting forward sensible
suggestions?
Finally, having sufﬁciently jeopardized my
status as an engineering student, I consider
my say as having been said. Anyone who
disapproves will not ﬁnd‘ me available for

argument. I’ve become quite docile already.

Tar SQUARE.

A parallel might well be found in some of
the basic religious concepts on the origin of
man. That is to say God made man as a
humble creature who trembled at thunder and
lightning at ﬁrst, but as time went by he
acquired more and more conﬁdence in himself
and ﬁnally today God, seemingly incapable
of inﬂuencing us, has been relegated to the
museum shelves as a primitive concept by the
technically advanced sect of humanity. My aim
here is not to prove or disprove the existence
of God but to point out that man’s creation
of the computer may follow the same course.
We could hardly look forwardwith relish to
the prospect of ﬁnding. ourselvesinvzoos at the

031qu
We regret to announce the pissing
away of Mr. K. Chandrasekaran (Re-lasarch Scholar, Chemistry D:p;irt.nentI

who, died after an illness on 25th
March, ’68.
Requr'escqt in Paco.

