prril, I968

CAMPASTIMES

CU LTLIDIXL
$1.9 Qeulscﬂe Wezil‘aﬁon .5 Mar. 1908
Als Dr. N. Klein vor scchs )ahren seinen
Pokal fur deutsche Rezitation stiftete, begann
damit zuniichst ein Zu'eikampf zwischen den
Studenten des Max Milller llhavan und des
Indian Institute of 'l‘echnoIOgy. In laule
der Jahre

hat

die Kulturwoche dcs

I.I.T.

immer mehr Teilnehmer aus andercn
Colleges und Ilochschulen angezogen, und
dcr Wettbcwerb um den Pokal fur deutsche
Rezitation hat besondcrs Interesse gefunden.
In diesem Sinne hattc auch der Sekretiir
dcs literarischen Kommittes die Einladung zu
dieser Veranstaltung in Deutsch abgefal-Jt
und an alle Deutschen im I.I.T. geschickt.
Seltsamer- und bedauerlicherweise hat auch
dieses Bemiihen keinen Erfolg gchabt—auBer
Herrn Dr. Klein und der Richterin Frau
Wagner (fiir die es gewissermaﬁen Pﬂicht
war) erschienen deutsche Gaste (vom I.I.T.)
nicht.
Die Anzahl der Bewerber und das durchschnittliche
Niveau der Rezitation lag
wesentlich héiher als jemals zuvor. Es gab
nicht our reine Wiederholungen in der
ublichen Form; Intonation und Gestik
fanden mehr Beachtung and wurden zum
ersten Mal ein Bestandteil des Wettbewerbes.
Dagegen gab es aber diesmal nicht ein
scharfes Kopf-an Kopf—Rennen urn den
ersten Preis. Frau Varadarajan vom Max
Miiller Bhavan war mit einer deutlichen,
fehlerlosen und von allen Gesichtspunkten
einwandfreien Rezitation die entschieden
uberlegene Siegerin. Karndar und Sudarsan
vom I.I.T. verschenkten ihren anfangs noch
moglichen Erfolg nach einigen Minuten
ausgezeichneter Artikulation und heftiger
(fast wilder!) Gestik durch unverzeihliche
Fehler— berspringen ganzer Zeilen und
Verwechslung von Umlauten.
Der Abend war schon und unterhaltsam—
und gerade darum ist die Abwesenheit all
unserer geladenen deutschen Caste so sehr
zu bedauern. Die angegebene Entschuldigung
einer gleichzeitig. stattﬁndenden Sitzung
des deutschen Stabes erschien nicht stichhaltig
Sie hatte sicherlich verlegt werden konnen,
und war bestimmt eine Sitzung ohne Damen.
Es ware eine erfreuliche Ermutigung, wenn
die Deutschen im I.I.T. in Zukunft mehn
Interesse fﬁr dime einzige studentische
Veranstaltung in deutscher Sprache in
unserem Institut zeigen wiirden.
——-—B11A|u'r KAMDAR.
GROUP DISCUSSION
6, March 1968.
The Group Discussion has hitherto posed
almost insuperable problems in organisation
and evaluation. No satisfactory system of
evaluation of a discussion group has yet been
evolved, and the public address System has
nearly always been less than ideal. For the

(‘Gandhi Meet Gandhiji WW
(From the speech by Mr. Mohan
Kumaramangalam, during the All India
Debate held at the Institute on 4th
March 1968).

ENTERTAINMENT
Never has our entertainment been an elixir of
exhilaration. But seldom has it fallen so low.
Although we put up something like our best
at the Cultural Week, it is not good enough——
a mere tasteless trifle. It is lamentable that

How unfair is it that we should have
to decide whether we should accept
(landhiji's principles or not to accept
themA——~in the absence of Gandhiji
himself. Suppose he comes back to
life

comes to India on

we should turn north, south, east and west

for original ideas and put up something on
the spur of the moment. As if we can disregard with impunity the eXpectations of a
humour-thirsty, music-hungry humanity which
has hitherto been less than impartial to people from outside. New talent is not forthcoming, old is fast fading . . . . Although Roy's
skits are enjOying something of a vogue, he
will do well to administer humour with
moderation, and spread out rather than water
down its content.

4th March

1968. Where would he go but to meet
the other Gandhi. He would see her
palatial house, guarded heavily, and
would ask permission to see the Prime
Minister
which is refused.
He
wonders what has happened to his
principles. An ordinary man can no
longer see the Prime Minister! He
would see the failure to implement
one of his main principles——that the
people will always be able to see the
leader. Gandhiji moved among the
common people. His mere presence
used to change the mind of an audience
that was determined to be h05tile.

The S.I.E.T. Women’s College tried hard to
retain the RGN Trophy for the third year in
succession.

At the beginning politics and political
movement was the monopoly of a
small group of well educated people.
This frail, simple man, incapable of
oratory, electriﬁed the whole country
by taking the political movement from

i
,

the educated sections of the people

’

i

The play by Pachaiyappa’s College lacked
even the rudiments of stagecraft—wisdom lies
in adaptability, in feeling the pulse of the
audience. Elsewhere, maybe the play would
have gone down well.

down to the masses. Gandhiji was
symbolising the people of this country

by the way in which he approached
problems and in the manner in which

he lived.

Emceed by Miss Usha Natarajan,

sustained by spirited performances like Miss
Arundhati Basu’s Naga dancing, mono-acting
and a discourse on transcendental meditation,
they came pretty close to doing it yet again.
Loyola, Presidency and Vivekananda did
quite well, but not well enough. The Beat-X
seem to have left quite a void in intercollegiate instrumental music.

‘

M.C.C. showed what c0uld be done in the

ﬁeld of entertainment. Their’s was opporToday Gandhiji would protest against
politicians in general. The political
leader looks at an issue not from the
point of the view of whole nation but
from that of his own party. While industrialisation is advancing sections of

.
i

people, millions are being kept back.
An important quality of Gandhiji
was that he did not bother about what
people thought about his opinions. It
is no use trying to analyse what he

1
i
‘

said in ’30 or ’40.

{

Gandhiji surely

was capable of appreciating how life
changes.
J

tune—it ﬁtted our audience like a glove.
Versatile Ambi Harsha’s documentary, and
the guy what’s—his-name’s rather protracted
discourse on South Indian dieting, and Leela
Krishnamurthy‘s admirable tirade on the
rights of women, helped them coast to an easy
victory. Those who enjoyed their entertainment and yearn for more, would do well to
wait for them next year.
Winding up the entertainment programme
was a lively ﬁfteen minute one-man show by
guest artiste Jason John and the Registrar’s
admirable, if slightly risqué, résumé of the
year's entertainment.
~—Campastimes.

“NOW WATCH ”—THE SCIENCE FAIR

ﬁrst time, I.I.T. ﬁelded two teams—led by
Gautam Mahajan and R. Shankar. Neither
was any good. Both the S.I.E.T. Women’s
College and the Madras Christian College
teams showed remarkable promise ..... The
trouble with women is that one’s attention is
nearly always (unequally) divided between
what they discuss and how they look . . . .
However, the S.I.E.T. Women’s College im-

prased one if not in the validity of their
argument, at least in their earnestness of
approach. The M.C.C. team, on the other
hand, were a more balanced side and were
unlucky to be placed second. Most of the
other teams, including our own, will bear a
lot of improvement.
QUIZ
7, March 1968.
The Quiz on the fourth day was wellcontested—by the M.C.C., I.I.T., and Law

College.

M.C.C. ultimately won, thanks to P.

Sudhir and Mahavir 'Aeharya, both of whom

won individual prizes. The Quizmaster, Sri
K. V. Ramanathan, 1.113., conducted the Quiz
well and kept the audience in good humour

throughout. Some felt that the questions
Were a little localised and my. Nevertheless
it was an enjOyable Quiz which brought to an
end the literary competitions in the WEEK.

P50108709,” Kubmdnn.
The Science Fair held this year during the Cultural Week drew large crowds.

the number of exhibits, the response was poor.
for next year's Fair?

Judging from

Why don't YOU think up a revolutionary project

