April, I968]

CAMPASTIMES

19'affaire gajendra
@irele—Ji yiejoinder
Some of the contributOrs to this magazine
have, needlessly if I may be permitted to point
out, sought to verbally demolish the standing
symbol of an Institute, the Gajendra Circle
and the general trend of thought, it may be
pointed out, seeks to question the very exist—
ence of the Gajendra Circle. My aesthetic
spirits being kindled and as an ardent lover of
any object d'art, I am naturally bridled about
it and raise my poniartl of a plume to defend
the relic from scurrilous and sacrilegious
attacks of my less virtuous friends, the
veritable Mordecais at the gate (so they seem
to think). I wish to expatiate on the monolithic
serenity of the monument in question.
I guess you must all be aware of the standing
symbol of liberty—the stately Statue of Liberty
towering high above as if to hold communion
with the creme de la creme per the summum
bonum in architecture yet it represents all that
America stands for—liberty, equality, peace
and a host of other qualities necessary for the
consummation of a free life. By the same
token the Gajendra Circle is highly symbolic
of all this Institute represents. The critics
who rail at this must be ﬁlled with a unique
hypochondriac ﬂatus—a more sinned against
than sinning or an ‘I can build better than
thou ' attitude. Their intellectual delinquency
appals me when they seek to sever the very
roots that seek to nurture them. The Gajendra
Circle with its statue complex is much more a
piece of art than what is dished out to us during
functions that seek refuge under the unshading
term ‘ entertainment’ (Beethoven, Mozart and
a host of others would turn in their graves if
they saw music being manhandled in such a
way.) I do not wish to temporize on the
ethics of a person attacking his alma mater.
The elephants represent the gargantuan
effort of mankind to uphold the fountain of
knowledge. Knowledge is power so the sages
say but unless someone powerful enough seeks
to uphold knowledge and keep the banner of
intellectual freedom ﬂying, we may as well
revert to the paleolithic age when might was
right. The elephants are a standing monument to the mammoth efforts of our Director
to keep an Institute in the intellectual map
and to abuse them would be, to say the least,

uncharitablc. Forgive my paronomasiac tendencies. The thinness of the tWO elephants is
noticed only by those whose Epicurian and
gourmet tendencies are not satisﬁed by the

Prof. Lehnartz, President, D.A.A.D., trying IlT chicken during
his visit here.

heavily on his alma mater that has put him on
his path to glory and from which fount of know—

ledge he has imbibed some. He has thrown
away his hammer and in its stead there is
a scroll—a portrayal of the pen is mightier than
the sword P One of his legs on the base of the
fountain and they appear unfettered; yet there
are several invisible chains that bind him to
his alma mater.
The fountain represents the Institute, the
repository of knowledge. There is but one
gate at the base as you will no doubt notice,
It shows that everyone knows where knowledge begins but no one knows where it ends;
there isn’t any outer gate. The raw student
steps into the institute through this gate that
represents the portals of knowledge. He
undergoes his course in a few years imbibing
knowledge and suddenly he ﬁnds himself
transported outside through an invisible fate.
If a person deliberately seeks to find the exit
gate he soon realizes there isn’t any and if he
prefers to leave he does so through the gate he
entered—without getting his degree. The

caution man against taking everything for
granted. To a person viewing the statue
complex from outside, at ﬁrst sight the ellipse
may appear to be circular and if he takes at
face value, what the board says as the Gajendra
Circle, he naturally is living in a fool's paradise.
There is yet another angle from which the
whole thing can be viewed, Just as the
cranking of an engine or the hum of transmission lines appear to the engineer as the
music of the spheres, so also does the ellipse
occur to the artist as inside. In reality, the
former view appears to the aesthetic as the
ultimate in cacophony while the latter view to
the engineer as the absolute lack of grooming
in geometry.
The world is highly prismatic and what
you perceive to be white is something that is a
vivid spectrum. Knowledge is the cohesive
force; it is that which seeks to bind people
of diverse, cultural, ethnological and social

backgrounds. In their common quest for
knowledge their variegated environs and superﬁcial or shall I say artiﬁcial differences are

meagre fare offered by our messhalls.

fountain spouts but rarely, but when it does,

relegated to the background.

Coming to the two boys standing beneath
the fountain. One of the boys wears an
extreme uncouth look on his face, his head
dishevclled. He holds a hammer in his hand—
perhaps symbolic of dubious statement that
might is right. This is because he is not clad
with the refulgent accoutrements of knowledge. Now have a look at the other person.
He stands gracefully holding a diploma in one
hand while his other hand rests on the fountain
base. He realizes that even though he has
completed his course of study successfully and

it does so in full force during important
functions literally gushing forth as it were all
intellectual progress. This is particularly true
of convocations when an army of graduands
are marched off to the battleﬁed of life. The
idea of the fountain gushing forth only during
functions may appear plebian and some may
brand it rank exhibitionism but it cannot be a
disclaimer to what it connotes—the fount of
knowledge never runs dry just as the ﬂame in
the Institute insignia never dries out.
A word or two about the name ‘ Gajcndra

something that is transcendental in nature and
not something evanescent. The great scientist
Newton remarked that he felt like a child
picking up pebbles from the vast beach of
knowledge and that even if he spent a whole
lifetime gathering pebbles, what he would
have achieved would be inﬁnitesimal and
would pale into insigniﬁcance in Comparison
with how much there that was yet to be
learned. 0 Temporal 0 Moses! [hereby
indict the critics for lese majestc.

has a diploma to prove it, he has to lean

Circle.’

It is, I feel, a deliberate slip made to

I take this opportunit to sincerely thank the
Director, the ﬂuff an the student. of the 111‘
for all the sympathy and help they have
extended to me at the and demise of my
husband, Mr. Kurt Schroctcr. The kindness
and friendship we have been privileged to
with me no a comforting and cherished
memory.
,
Mrs. BRNA SCHROETER.

and refrained from prescribing immature and
theoretical solutions to our problems.

I ﬁnd it difﬁcult tp put down on paper my
feelings about the late Mr. Schroeter. His
demise has been tod sudden and recent to
allow me to express my feelings cogently.
My ﬁrst thoughts, on coming to know that
he was no more with us. were for Mrs.
Schroetcr, whose friendship and personal
kindneu to me over the cars, I have valued
greatly. I
ny that
would give her the
strength to or this tragic loss.
Mr. Schroetcr identiﬁed himself so completely with the Metallurgy Department and
promoted its interests no zealously that I do
not remember n single discordant note
between us over the [not five years. There
was. between us, complete harmony of outlook and effort. I admired and utilised freely.
his chill in handling men and his knowledge of
administrative requirements and procedureo.
He won nlwnyl ready to learn and to teach.
Often admitting freely that he had never so
much in occn, before he installed them, many

Mr. Schroeter’s health was not good. He
fell ill, occasionally, to begin with. but with
distressing frequency, during the last a or
3 years.

When he was well, he used to enjoy

himself immensely. Swimming was, his
favourite recreation and he would be quite
upset if any engagement threatened to interfere
with his Sunday morning swim. More often
than not. he would just ignore the engagement.
But the frequent spells of illness wrought their
inner havoc, apparent to anyone

who had

worked with him earlier, and had the ﬁnal say,
after all.
~
Mr. Schroeter leaves behind him, in the
Department of Metallurgy, a record of work

and service which cannot be surpassed. His
former colleagues deeply mourn his loss and
will miss him increasingly in the days, to
come. To me personally, the loss in more
than I can express.
.

<

of the instruments and equipment, which are
/

2

-CLARxn.

but at times quite obvious, of the showing-OE,
indulged in by many academic staE and he
could, quite disconcertingly, bring them to
earth by some very shrewd remarks. Having
lived in our country for nearly 20 years and
seen the amazing progress in industrialisation
and technical education recorded in this
period, he was more appreciative of our
achievements and more tolerant of our failing:
and limitations than most of his countrymen

experience over all these years, I shall take

the pride of the Metallurgy Department, he
handled all the job- cntrusted to him, with
pleasure nnd diurnction.
Ho had it dislike, generally well-concealed,

Learning is

, ,_ .-a....

,

.. ,

.

-JA-Avxx.

The late Mr. KURT SCHROE’I'ER.

I thank the Editor of Compartr‘mer for
allowing me to write a few words about
Mr. Schroeter. I am sure that my words
will ﬁnd an echo in the hearts of all its
readers.
Dr. E. G. RAMACHANDRAN.

