[ April, I968

CAMPASTIMES

6
Higgins’

‘ The Gobbledegook
7OU‘RF. the Gobbledegook,‘ Sheila smiled
persuasively though I didn‘t need any
persuading. I was ready to believe whatever
she said. ‘ Now, the game goes like this. . .'
I couldn‘t pay much attention to her explana—
tion, she was more distracting than what she

‘

said. Words like ‘the Jack of Spades ',
‘clues‘, and ‘Gobbledcgook’ formed a part
of the spiel she was trying to sell
nodded intelligently and watched
fascination. ‘Shall we start?’ She
around. A large variety of aﬁirmatives

me. I
her in
looked
greeted

classic

words,

‘ Their heads

are

full of cotton, hay and rags.’ But Sheila. . .
I racked my brains. Where rum/(1' they
hide? I looked up at the terrace. There?
Not knowing the layout of the house made
matters worse. Then an idea struck me. I
went back into the room and stood stock still.
Listened. The sound of breathing ! Someone
was in the room. There was a cupboard
with a wire-gauze ventilator. A large cabinet.
I looked behind the cabinet. Nothing. There

was nowhere other than the cupboard that a

Excited giggles and an alarmed squeak
followed my words. The door swung open
and four girls trooped out. They received
four smart smacks. Then I treated them to

a totally unmentionable look.

They were

simply delighted.
Next, I invaded a bedroom. There was
nothing under the bed or anywhere else. I
hadn‘t unearthed Sheila and Mala yet. The
kitchen? That held no possibilities. I
wondered whether there was a basement.
Entering a small passageway which seemed to
lead nowhere, I eyed a large concrete shelf
overhead, and whistled. Mohan scrambled
down. ‘I give up. Don’t chuck anything
at me.’ Giving him a friendly tap on the

and don’t gape at her!’ I did as I was told,

person could hide. I tiptoed across and
placed a ear against the cupboard door. Yes,
someone was inside. \Vho ? I glanced down,
perhaps looking for something. Cigarette
ash. Four boys had been smoking. I went
to the table, laid hold of a jug and sent the
water through the ventilator. Venky tumbled
out. coughing and spluttering. ‘ What the
hell l You . . . you. . .’ He made as if to
throw a punch at me. I grinned evilly, laid
both hands on his shirt front and drew his

trying not to winCe.

face up to mine. ‘ Yeah?’ His wet mug

via this door.

drooped. He was preternaturally quiet after
that, as if he had lost his voice or something.

making as much noise as I could. Suddenly
I stopped and froze. There was a patter of

I let him go and went out into the garden.

her

question.

I

drooled

anxious not to be left out.

out

an

‘ okay ’,

Then, still smil—

ing, she held out the cards to me.

Slowly, I

extended a hand to the pack, wondering what
Iwas supposed to do. My sister, sitting on
the arm of my chair, gave me a dig in the
ribs and gritted out in a stage whisper, ‘ Cut,

Sheila was 'a new addition to our class.
She had arrived in a ﬂurry of bags and smiles
two weeks after the term commenced. The

shoulder, I murmured, ‘ There‘s a good boy.‘

Then, another idea struck me.

Grinning

ﬁendishly, I doubled back to the dining room
where the card game had been going on.
Sure enough, the door opened at the ﬁrst try.
Someone had entered the room from the

garden through the french windows and left
I hared

up the staircase,

to establish chummy relations. Mala, my
twin sister, was piqued, perhaps, by this
undigniﬁed scramble. I don’t know what she

satisfaction and dragged it along to the tap.

feet as they tried to ﬁnd hiding places. I
burbled like the Jabberwock and crashed into
the second bedroom. Mala was stuck half-

Fitting the pipe to the tap, I Screwed the tap

way under the bed, her bottom pointing

open. A stream of water came gurgling out

had to complain about, seeing that she her-

of the nozzle. I turned the collar around the
nozzle. The stream narrowed and whooshed
out across the garden. Then, I turned the

straight at the ceiling. Haw-haw-hawing like
nobody's business, I jumped on the bed.

boys had fallen over themselves in their hurry

self had caused a similar scramble when we

arrived at St. Justin's. Anyhow, I ﬂipped a
couple of somersaults and scrambled faster

I found the hosepipe.

I grunted with

approval. You know how it is . . . along

nozzle upwards. It was a hugely enjoyable
process, drenching the terrace, I mean.
Half-a-dozen outraged voices screamed at me.

comes a new girl and she excites your interest

Let them scream for a while.

than the rest, despite Mala’s obvious dis-

if she’s anything like pretty. Sheila was a
ton of dynamite, still is. She dispensed
breathtaking smiles with an open-handedness
that struck me as criminal. Half-wits like
Ioshi and Venky snmpered around with
fatuous leers on their silly faces if she but

glanced at them. I . . . well, she had invited
fourteen of us for a get-together kind of party
besides it,was her birthday or Something. Mala persisted in being silly. She
wouldn’t even tell me what sort of present
Would be suitable. I had got round that

I left the hose and went into the house.
Passing through the hall, I paused to throw
the main switch. The lights came on. An

everincreasing babble drifted in from the

She ‘ unked ’ satisfyingly as the springs made
contact with her head.
Sheila was vainly trying to hide herSelf

behind a curtain. It took the Gobbledegook
a moment to tumble off the bed and
zoom across to the curtain. ‘Eeks!’ she
squeaked as it collapsed round her. I peeled
it off with a jerk.

‘ You’ll have to be punished severely for the
awful trick you played on me,’ I told her

garden as the wet sops descended from the

with satanic glee. Then, I punished her

terrace.
There was a closet under the stairs. I
headed towards it, picking up a table-tennis

severely.

hat on the way. There might not have
been anyone in it, but I banged the closet

ALL in all, it was great evening. Sheila has
never looked at another boy after that.

door all the same. ‘ Come out pronto, or
I’ll tan your backsides with this broomstick ! ’

—-THB Goantaoaooox.

the Gobbledegook, whatever that is.
‘No,’ she sounded amused._ ‘You take
just three cards. Yes, . . . . now, hand one,
face down, to the player on your left. . .’

She coughed hesitantly.
‘That's Mohan,’ I told her, thinking she
hadn’t yet learnt his name. I thrust a card
at him.

He took it quietly; he's always

quiet. Sheila started dealing cards to the
remaining eleven.
‘ Gobbledegook, you go out of the room.
Come back after a couple of minutes . . . .
we’ll tell you when.’ She tripped over
‘ Gobbledegook ’. Venky grinned smugly at
me. He was sitting mm to Sheila. I felt

like spreading his face all over the ﬂoor.
‘ Awright.’ I trotted out.
I looked at my watch.

Three minutes were

‘ up. "May I Come in now P ’ I shouted,
feeling a little foolish. A few seconds ticked
by‘. .‘ Yes.’ I recognized Mala’s voice.
Then the'lights went out.
.
‘Whaa?’ Straining my eyes a little, I
lomtedthe door handle, twisted and pushed.

The door refused to budge. I pushed harder.
It was probably bolted from the inside.

Was

this some idiot’s idea of a joke? ‘ Hey, open
the door I ’ I yelled.

Not a sound from the

room, Very funny! I stood there for a few
moments,

wondering what on earth was

happening. I decided on act fast. Half
walking, half running, I phsed through the
hall. Not a light anywhere. Out through
the ~from door and into the garden. I arrived
at .the french windows. They were: open.
Moonlight lay splashed across the ﬂoor; it
revealed sn'erfnpty room. * Big deal ! .So they

were hiding; ‘were they? What did they
think they were, kids playing hide-and-seek?

And why put off the lights? To make the
Gobbledegook ﬂounder a bit more, I thought.
wryly. Then, I remembered that it was

Sheila who had suggested the whole thing.
Girls, girls! I smiled a little as I thought of

Motor Industries Co. Ltd.
BANGALORE-l

Manufacturer: of:
Mico-Licencc-Bosch Spark Plugs and
Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment
under licence of

ROBERT BOSCH GmbH
Stuttgart. West Germany
WWW”

WWWﬁﬁWMﬁéﬁﬂéﬁéﬁéﬂé

Sheila had started off on one of those
nonsensical party games. I wound up being

l

time to see Sheila’s parents wisely leaving
the house before the festivities started.

iﬁﬂtﬁK-ﬂémﬁﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéﬂéeﬁﬂé

difﬁculty quite easily, and we’d arrived in

