[ApriL I968

CAMPASTIMES

AS I SEE IT

In Anticipation

The difﬁculty with writing

EDITORIAL
A lot is being spoken about the exodus of
our brains (especially the scientists. and the
technologists) to the West. While it is true
that thousands of engineers are idle, we must
not conclude that the country's needs for such
men have been fully satisﬁed. We are still
very much in need of capable sc1entists and
engineers.
And, it is these qualiﬁed individuals who

are emigrating. The blame is not entirely
theirs.

Their subjects may be so highly

specialised that they ﬁnd little apph:ation in
our country. A specialist in Control Systems
may come back to ﬁnd himself unable to apply
what he has learnt. The conditions of operation are different.

The problem can be solved only by the
brains themselves. They should realise that

they are obliged to serve in the country that
has trained them in order to meet her own
needs. The purpose of higher education
abroad should be to study methods there to
apply them in improving Conditions in our

own country.
a

s

a:

Campos-times will also be hit when the'Class

of 1968 graduates. Vijay Reddy brews his last
cup of sizzling tea in this issue. Sudarsan
will no longer be responsible for the defama-

tion of the character of the ﬁnal years, passmg
them off as caricatures.

There are many more

who have contributed to maintaining the
quality of the paper.

Companion: needs a lot of improvement.

Worthiest of your estimation
Descrving your bend-action
After enough consideration
And much deliberation
Long meditation
And close calculation
I have a strong inclination
To become your relation
And live in cohesion
With harmonization
I hope this application
Will receive your consideration

from the point.

than heading for any particular place.
And so, in passing, let u‘s stroll awhile
through the garden, even if your name isn’t
Maud. (Question—What Mod would come
into the garden anyway ?) The frenzy of
horticultural effort times itself so precisely
that it gives the unmistakable impression of
being jerked into action by the Trophy rather
than sustained by a genuine interest.

As for my qualiﬁcation
I have passed Matriculation
Which is a botheration

To the Indian population

Bouquets to the few green ﬁngers which

Whose chief occupation
Is Cultivation
Though I passed this examination
To my teacher's satisfaction
Without any hesitation
And without preparation
I received no admiration.

produce smooth lawns and roses at other
times.
Gardens are tended at least sometimes.
Not so the pathetic beginnings of classical

After this examination

this unreasoning dislike in unmusical vociferations against the hapless exponent. Musical
appreciation classes, God knows, are on almost
the same level as feeding by stomach pumps;
but it ought to be clear that music derives at
least as much from complex rhythms and the
proper use of half-tones as it does from loud

music. There is a stigma on things Indian in
general and Indian music in particular, and it
is ‘ In ’ not merely to dislike it (which is a
comparatively civilized action) but to express

I worked in the Corporation

In the Department of Enumeration
Which meant miscalculation

With enough scope for corruption
Tempting me to misappropriation
And malversation

For which I was subject to condemnation
Forcing my resignation.
After this occupation

Without appreciation
In spite of my contribution
I appeared before Service Commission

Which did not give any conceSSion
And failed me in moderation
To my utter confusion
Though I had records for veriﬁcation
To show I can work to their gloriﬁcation

When I don’t get job satisfaction
Why this Service Commission

an Editor should be nominated and allowed
to form his own Committee. The quality and

I’m giving demonstration
Without obligation

periodicity of the paper is wholly dependent
upon how harmoniously the Board functions.

To the growing population
To kill time without occupation
Which has led me ti :frustration.

Now having no vocation.

Nor any speciﬁc location

And dehydration
I’m putting up this application

suddenly, I hear someone saying
You've stolen my queen

And—
I remember your promises—
Which never came trueReminding me that dark devil night
‘Yar ? completed the sequence?

You’ve got two jokers? '
Impossible!
The sequence will never ever be completed
My queen went 05 with some other King—
The sequence will always be incomplete-—
——-Immaterial of the two Jokers.
—Msnoasn Manna.

approval, which naturally gives us less and less
chance to extend that approval. But the
appreciation of excellence in the performance
of other colleges was whole-hearted. Less
booing and a greater effort to give a man a
fair hearing will evoke better performances
from those on stage, who after all are only a
little less amateur than the rest of us.
The Cultural Week was very literary, but
why was it not Literary and ? It is irrational
to sacriﬁce meaning in the interest of brevity.
The argument that literature is 'ust one
aspect of culture is specious: de ates and

culture; they are, traditionally, events with a

sent the reﬁnement of culture, God help

Is worthy of consideration
And also commiseration

It will be to the augmentation
Of our satisfaction
Of ourjoint dissemination.

But I, sit there, just like a statue.

Which happens

often enough for you to recall the last time
you noticed it, but not often enough to keep
you from remembering when you wanted to
see it again. Like the back numbers of
Argosy in the Library. Like some parts of
the inter-collegiate entertainment. As time

To improve my situation
And if such an obligation

And exaltation

With a jack to serve sometimes.
Speed of clippings and laughters—
Increases rapidly

slowly to a golden brilliance.

group discussions and quizzes do not bespeak
the advanco of literature; and if they repre-

And the cards are played—

Are wedded together

the major diatonic.
So much for that tirade. There are still
things worth looking at, like the huge red full
moon low on the eastern sky, which rises

And on your approbation,
Of my requisition
é
I shall make preparation

In a bachelor’s roomYou find a gangful of friends—
With hot gulps of tea—
The Kings and queens-

obvious beats and loud obvious variations on

goes on we seem to boo more and more at
whatever does not meet wholly with our

Which wants only recommendation P

To overcome this dejection

66911.6!266

This is apity, for I dotc on

digression. So the point here is to depart
from the point. Everything is by the way,
rather like a walk on an aperiodic evening:
what you see as you pass interests you more

And you will take necessary action.

Little can be achieved when it is run by a
panel of elected members. For efﬁcient-functioning it has to be edited by an Editorial
Board. The Board should Consist of three or
four members of literary repute. Alternatively,

Good Luck in the Finals,
Folks. You need it!

something—

anything at all—is that it has, by convention,
to be one thing at a time, and in some
classic cases the same thing at all times.
Digression, however interesting, is departure

Thanking you in anticipation
I remain a victim of your fascination
Awaiting your communication

literary ﬂavour. Aweek in which they are
held together with competitions in painting,
photography and entertainment. is a Literary
and Cultural Week. Or cut the tackle and
call it Competition Week.
Entertainment? Well, yes. At least, the
prospect is entertaining. Comes the big
night. Plays are out, for variety and half-Inhour and Well-written plays are incompatible.
Serious stuff is out except when it is given
the odd minute to impress the judges.

(Odd,

Without persuasion

the impression is also minute.) In are skits,

For early solemnizstion

humorous monologues and pop songs. If they
do not amuse, you're probably hard to please.

As I have no occasion
For personal discussion.

—Jiiuu..

They do not instruct—they’d better not
try. They do not edify, unless your present
level is lamentably subterranean. But they
entertain.

Get that clear.

They entertain.

Without offending all this laudable fondness
Some of our Readers complain that

their letters are either edited or censoredbefore publication. They are informed
that the Committee publishes only that
which it thinks best. It reserves the

right to publish letters inwholc or part.
—le Publication Commute.

for what entertains, it must be said that while
Comedy has its Muse, there were eight other

Muses in'Parnsssussome time ago.
When one get: time to look around. which
isnotvery often, thereis quite somethin to
look around at. We live in a beautiful pﬁce,
hutbesuty,likeotherqualities,iamore easily

(Contd. on p. 9, col. 3)

