April. I968 j

CAMPASTIMES

9
M

THE midnight melody from the Velachery
public address system announced the
end of the late, late show. The night
was foggy ; as Vizzy might have said, the three
night old moon was playing hide—and-sheek
with the sheabound clouds.

of unwantedness, unfriendliness and ugliness.

It as great an insult to those it keeps in, as to
thoseit keeps out of Kaveri. For a moment,
stepping down from the emotional plane to the
ground plane, it means at least a furlong more
between Krishna and the OAT. If Kaveri
can take it lying down, Krishna can’t.
.Scheming this moment in some dark corner

Four men, four

determined men, leaving behind the warmth
and security of their soft beds, assembled
under the portico of the northern entrance to
Krishna. They did not make talk—theirs
was not to talk but to act.
It was a strange foursome that had come
together in common commitment that night.
They were no hell’s angels, no mods nor
rockers, nor members of the Thursday
evening murder club. They were normal,
contented, amicable men of peaceful disposi~
tions. This was the ﬁrst time they had
got out On a cold, unfriendly night on such
an‘errand, and perhaps it would be the last.
Their cause supported, they would go their
ways and melt into the multitude they came
from—~their brief alliance marked in time
and space only by the results of their mission that night.
Any Resemblance of any Characters
in this note to persons living or dying, if

not stronger, is more due to the inadequacy of the pen that describes them
than due to any uncertainty in the
existence of these persons.
The ﬁrst—-—it was surprising that he had
found time and time at midnight to’be there.
His existence was one hopeless romance with
speed. Faster, faster, was his motto—
whether living, whether travelling on his
tolerant Enﬁeld or just pulling fast ones.
His philosophy was best understood from the

slogans from the walls of his dens

‘ Study

as if living for ever; live as if dying tomorrow ’. ‘ Of all my relations, I like sex the
most.’ He saw the world througha kaleidoscope and spoke about it through a seven-

channel Hi-ﬁ. He enjoyed living. He was

of the Institute, is a mind that could have

OF 146 750
answer.

Acknowledging his leadership, he

stood a little apart, looking for the ﬁfth. In
his spare time he attended the negotiations
between the Wardens of Krishna and Narma—
da on the ratio in which his hostel room rent
was to be divided between the two hostels.
At eighteen minutes

past midnight, the

ﬁfth joined them. One of them turned off
the light in the portico.
‘ Shall We move P ’
Two in the ﬂanks, led by one and followed
by the other, the ﬁfth, the observer following
a few yards behind, unknown to themselves
they walked in battle formation and it was not
peace that they sought in the middle of the
hostile night. They did not hurry for their
destination was only ﬁfty yards away. It
would take them about eighty seconds to be
there. A historic S.O.S. (Save Our Sur<

roundings) mission had begun: it was later to
prove the most effective since the one-man
commando raid on the Gajendra Complex by
that stout hearted souvenir hunter from Godavan.

’He was the baby of the team but his delayed appearance on the world scene and his
subsequent reluctance to give up his economy
size were an imperfect measure of his adult
status. A battle-worn Veteran of countless
all-night ﬂash gruels in some of the most remained gambling company of I.I.T., there

often heard quipping, ‘They said I.I.T.
would be rough. Rough, my left....’ In
his spare time he visited the international
fair and wrote long, sweet letters to deans of
Arnerican universities. He had the least
reason to he .therc that night.
The second was a genial, moody cynic
with a handsome, sensual face cast in a permanent mould of incipient protest. He complained about many things—i-—-stiffness of

truths. In his spare time, he drank tomato
sauce and inhaled a brand that sturdier
men shuddered to cultivate. Lending the

toasts, temperature of cakes, unlucky horses
and uncooked chickens—-—but always in a
voice that accepted the discomforts of existence, without a thought of retribution. If
he was there, that night, it was in rebellion

against himself. His consuming obsession in
life was ice-cream. Neither Kwality nor custom could stay his Joy in consuming large
quantiﬁes of it with Gay abandon. In his
spare time, he won the Schroeter Cup for

Kris a.
‘Ganga Hostel is-only ﬁve minutes walk
if you run !'—the words of a mooney P No.

Theseare gems of profundity. Profundity;
, that was his speciality, the third mem-

, '3. He was the ideologist of the group.
An enthusiastic punter, two seasons back he

was known to have said to his companion
ﬁve

times during a race,

‘Yu Darling is

riding Matroy, Yu Darling is riding Matroy.
. . . ’ Yu Darling then bein a stallion;
Matroy then being a jockey; c place then
not being a stud farm for Centaurs and the

time then not being the twilight zone. He
analysed exhaustively all that was said to him

before be reacted and he «was .often unfairly
mistaken for a tube light.

While people

amount! him were beating about the bush for
hours, he would come out with an incisive
Ind peremptory assessment of the situation;
but alas. others complained, he was always one
bush too late. I suspect he was the inspiration behind the operation. His must have

been the emotional fervour that had carried
these men from more words of disapproval to»
that night’s action of retaliation. His must
hmbeenthekcy that opened theminds of

taught Marques de Sade a couple of tricks.
He alone could have perpetrated the rape of
the OAT, that we watched on, helplessly.
Like creation, destruction needs talent and
this fellow has it Maal The beautiful bowl
has become a squirrel cage.
The unassuming, apologetic fence hanging
on to crooked stumps around the elephants is
more amusing than distressing. It must have
been the Work of an extremely crude intellect.
Even the unhappy elephants must have
laughed. We learn that it is to protect the giants
of the mammal world from their spotted kin and
the likes of the elusive souvenir hunter form
Godavari. Presumably, the elephants were
created to beautify the Circle. The barbed
wire belt or whatever it is, has turned it into
an eyesore, if it wasn’t already one. Does it
make sense to protect something, if, in the act
of protecting, the object becomes unworthy
of protection? It is like the American logic
in Vietnam, of razing a village to save it.

They had reached their destination. For a
moment, they stared at their target
dark
squares with metal ﬂowers, silhouetted against
the verandah lights. It only hardened their
wills and gladdened their hearts. They owed,
they believed, to themselves and to their creed
to act as they were about to act.
‘ Cutters.’
‘ With the compliments of the Dept. of; . .
Symbolically,the four held the cutters, together. As the ecstatic ﬁngers squeezed the
levers and felt the metal yielding, they were
reminded of Commander Bond’s game with
Tiger Tanaka—paper wraps stone, stone
breaks sciSSors, scissors cut paper———barbed

wire irks Krishna, Krishna commands pliers,
pliers cut wires. A deafening noise, like the
crack of a riﬂe, marked the ﬁrst yard of barbed

Were few he could not vanquish when he

wire that was not going to insult anyone,

brought into use his delectable mother tongue
Punjabi
the language of langu-

audacity of his youth to his aged comrades, he

inside or outside Kaveri. They gasped. Had
the watchman heard P Footsteps I They
prepared for ﬂight.
A staggering, half-asleep inmate emerged
from behind the corner, walked into the bathroom, switched 03 the light and settled down.
Serious, as their purpose was, humour had not

was in the middle of most of what happened

deserted them.

in the stormy Tapti of t963. If there lived a

‘ Poor chap.

ages whet't simple men must utter simple

man for that night’s mission, this boy was
that man.
'
What strange forces of destiny had gathered
these unlikely men on this unlikely mission?
What indeed had provoked these gentlemen
to switch their tail coats and top hats for olive

green and combat helmets i
It had started seventeen days before. That
sultry afternoon, the home—coming dadas of
Kaveri found their hostel neatly surrounded
by three feet deep ditches at eight feet intervals. Ah 1 The smart Garden Sec., they had
thought. The garden competition was only a
few days away and Kaveri waa going to become a paradise of palms. Days passed but
no palms come. Meanwhile three cyclists and
two pedestrians had found out for themselves
that holes 3 feet by 3 feet by 3 feet had essentially no earth in them.
'
Another sultry afternoon, the aged inmates
of Kaveri were shocked to learn that harsh
concrete pillars and not. soothing palms had
grown out of the ditches. Ah! Garden Sec.
of vision, they had thought.

Cement posts

for creepers; Kaveri was going to wear a
blazing garland of red, pink and white
Bougainvillea. The seniormost hostel was
going to become the loveliest hostel. Soon

enough, they got their garland; some garland!
Around concentration camps, P 8: T depart-

these brave men to the ohligtion that was
theirs. Having stated the pro lent, his must

ment condemned equipment enclosures and
the desolate megaranches of the Australian
outback, barbed wire is at once the decoration,
the name-plate and the identity. It is hard
to say which was made for which. Barbed

have boon the mind that had provided the

wire is not a mere boundary, it is a symbol—

The Speedster came out,

Must be having a terrible com-

plex. Doesn’t even dare to see himself. . .’
They laughed half Out of relief.
They worked swiftly and expertly. When
they had ﬁnished, Kaveri’s prickly perimeter
was without two links. Their calling answer—
ed, they returned to their apartments and
slept soundly, in the knowledge that Kaveri
and Krishna would ﬂow together again. The
next night, the liberators struck again, a
hundred yards to the east and at another point
Crucial to Narmada-bound pedestrians. The
ﬁve brave men had shown the way.
—-VIJAY REDDY.

(Continued froth page 8)
seen when you learn to look for it. Integrity
is needed to see life as more than a succession
of grouses, miseries and minor successes.
The bracing gust of a morning breeze, the
cloudless blue sky, the placid calm of the
evening, the feeling that it's great to be alive
on such a day—these call for a keener
awareness of the things we tend to take for
granted. When you see the sky as you usually
do, observed the guy who was reading this.
over my shoulder as I wrote, it’s colourless—
it isn’t blue. So, for the nonce, blue skies to
you who have stayed with me on this meandering stroll—blue skies and green grass
and stars on the midnight sky.

