[ApriL I968

CAMPASTIMES

Greek and Latin
This is not the ﬁrst instalment of a ‘Teach
Yourself—‘ series, nor is it a study on

Sportio i0

which of the mo languages is easier to study.
This is merely a summary (and only a summary) of random reflections on the popularity

and usefulness of these languages, in all ﬁelds

Boxing

Stroke to Victory

IITian Oarsmen hit the headlines again
recently. Ebby and his men won narrowly
in the senior Fours event at the Regatta.
Sanyal and Basu John emerged victors in
the maiden pairs event, by sheer bull power.

With the exit of many old timers, the boxing
ring saw the upsurge of fresh blood this year.
Yes, pugilism is back in the news, thanks to
the enthusiasm shown by the juniors. Al~
though the Boxing Club is handicapped by
meagre equipment and lack of a p 'oteSsional
coach, the learners were attentne. Many
picked up the knack quickly; for boxing is
more a science than an art—the stronger need
no longer be the better boxer.

THE SKATING
CLUB
Our Gymkhana calls it Sangam and uses it

including the gravitational ﬁeld. The ﬁrst
half of what follows is about the former and
less will be said about the latter in the latter
half of what follows the ,ﬁrst half. The
obvious reason being that it is Greek and Latin
( i l ) to me and heme the legs jargon about
Latin 1 spout, the better it “ill be for me.
Let us begin with the ﬁrst letter of the

Greek alphabet—Alpha. And this is where
we can prove conclusrvely that the person who

is likely to know more about the ﬁrst letter
of the Greek alphabet is not a Greek but a
foreigner, say an IITian. To a Greek Alpha
is nothing but the ﬁrst letter of the alphabet.
But to a student at IIT it is much more. It
is invaluable to him because of the fact that it
Alpha for copper is
has many values.
0.167X io’I (the coefficient of linear expansion) and Alpha for brass lies between 0.001
and 0.002 (the temperature coefﬁcient of
resistance).
The rate of change of angular velocity is

Alpha with the dimensions T“? —and it is

for ofﬁcial dinners ; some prefer to use it for
cricket; but we, the members of the Skating

dimensionless when it takes values between
0 8: 360°.
When leena writes 0-5 Alpha in the

Club, call it the Skating Rink. The rink was
built in a great hurry, in time for the InterIIT farewell dinner.

circuit diagram, it means the range of the
ammeter is from o to 5 amperes.
Alpha, the absorption coefﬁcient of a surface is deﬁned as the ratio of the sound
energy absorbed to the total sound energy
incident on the surface. Clarke’s Tables
gives the value of the ﬁne-structure constant.
JAlpha, as 137.04..

Our club started rolling along on October
nth. We had eight skates in working condi-

tion and 24 members. With the help of Mr.
Suraj Alexarder and others, eight more pairs
were repaired; and by November, there were
forty~eight members. There were about thirty
names in the waiting list, but the Gymkhana’s
Phony; mph .' Ni ii i t ra.

promise to get new skates seemed to be going
the ‘ swimming-pool way ’.

The utility of Alpha is not conﬁned to the
Earth alone, or, for that matter, to our Solar

System. Stars, thousands of light-years away,
twinkle with pride—the pride of being
In the ﬁnal competition, Samir Das toppled
last year’s champion ‘Shorty’ Nair. Nair
however had no reason for disappointment
when he was adjudged the best loser. ]. V
Pais, a newcomer to boxing pulled off the
biggest surprise of the day when he outpointed
his opponent in his bout. Wily Kannan
managed to clinch the issue in his match by
staying well out of his opponent's reach almost
all the time.
Victor Thamburaj, the hard hitting fresher
won an easy victory over Janes. Credit must
go to the loser too, to have at least managed
to stay through the bout.

Alt was a treat to watch Muthanna, whose
orthodox punches, agile ducking, and cautious
stalking of his opponent gave us a glimpse of
what Boxing should be like. Throughout, he
effortlessly slipped all his opponent’s ponderous
punches. Muthanna won his bout and the
Best Boxer trophy.

associated with the greatest of the Greek
letters, Alpha.
Alpha Centauri, Alpha Canis Majoris (or
Sirius), Alpha Lyrae otherwise known as the
star Vega towards which our Sun is supposed

to be hurrying, and to boot it all, Alpha Bodtes
—all these are associated with Alpha.
With Alpha particles, which form the

Alpha-Beta-Gamma of nuclear physics, and
which all readers are likely to know, the reﬂections on Alpha go out of focus.

Talking of reﬂections, I am reminded of
another great Greek letter, Phi. Just as it is

written in different ways by diﬂ'erent people,
Phi assumes different forms on the same day
within a ‘short’ period of, say, four hours.
On Thursdays, for example, in the ﬁrst hour
it is said that the potential function, Phi,

always means irrotational ﬂow. In the second
hour, the Physics lecturer drills it into one's
mind that: n Simﬁ - n' Sin ¢',
where Phi is the angle . . . . . ,

it (x, y) is a function in the third hour
(Maths class), and Phi, the magnetic ﬂux-

Photograph : Maitra.

B.a in circuits in the fourth hour.
We have seen the many different ways in
which a letter can be written and the many

Roller-skating isn’t hard to learn, and is
never boring, for you can always try new tricks
or attempt to increase your speed. We were

different values it can have . . . . but here’s

a letter which is pronounced in different ways,
Delta, A, or 8.

encouraged by the visit of Mr. Mohan Acharya

The capital Delta is made to stand upside

and his pair-skating partner on the 12th of
March. Mr. Acharya gave us a demonstration
in ﬁgure skating, taught us a few tricks, and

down, v, and is called the Del operator. The
smaller 8 is called ‘ doe’ or ‘ dee ’ as and when

one pleases.

gave us some valuable advice on the mainte—

Perhaps the most widely used Greek letter
is Pi, 7r. It is astonishing that though its

nance of our rink and the running of the club

in general. Thanks to the huge IITian

usage is widespread, this letter and its value
have undergone comparatively little alteration.
1r = 22/7, or more precisely, 3.14.!59265.

gathering, his visit was a grand success.

The IITians can make skating a ‘ pop ’ game.
We can have inter-hostel competitions. We
have good skaters like Papa Rao, and if our
Gymkhana decides to send a skating team to
the inter-IIT meet, I am sure the team will be
successful. I conclude with the hope that
our club will receive support from the students

as well as the Gymkhana.
—S. Hausa-rm,
Suntan.

Photograph : Maitra.

judging from the response this year the

boxing club is optimistic. Next year it hopes

It is impossible to even dream what will
happen in the absence of Eta (viscosity when
Tau (shear) takes place resulting in Mu
(friction) between two surfaces separated by
a distance less than Epsilon (however small).
The Sigma, 2, (sum total) of all this is

to arrange matches with other colleges. This
sport is bound to become popular in the

that it is impossible to turn (through an angle

campus.

clockwise direction) to any ﬁeld without com-

Theta with a velocity Omega in the antiing across even an r', iota of Greek.

-—-Smu..

-—R. Santana.

