ll
April. I968]

CAMPASTIMES

Well Known Facts
About Some Little Known People
Acknowledgement : If it hadn't been for the humorous disposition of the gentlemen
1 am writing about, and the money—back guarantee I hold from Charles Atlas, this article
would never have come to be written.

The gents are from the batch of ’68, and this batch has its own peculiarities, like all other
batches—it goes for all vacations late. Not that its their fault really—~it’s either a question of
postponed exams., or the Civil Engineering Department wanting to give it extra courses in
drawing, or just about anything. And another thing—knowing this batch is to know the meaning

regardless of age, sex and what you thought
of them, his observations must have been
pretty interesting. The citizens of Pernmbavoor on these occasions would have been
studying the shirt-and-trousered one too.
(The trousers they would have understood,
but I bet they are still wondering what that
shirt was all about? l)
Aspy is most probably pushing off to the
U.S. after getting his degree here. Out
there, where they call Alfred Al, I wonder

what they are going to shorten his name
down to?

of ‘it takes all sorts to make this world ’.

From this batch I have picked a few guys, who would sound nice calling me ‘Vipcr-in—
their—bosoms ’, when this article is published, for .his study.
HE World War II was coming to a close.

In Malaya the natives had been having
a helluva rough time with the Japs.

It was at

this juncture that Santhana Raj was born
there. (Troubles never come alone, the
Malays must have mused, what with the
wisdom of the East and all that.) It would
be interesting to imagine the scene of
Santhan’s birth. There must have been
frenzied beating of the tom-toms, and guys

in their festival-best loin-cloths

dancing

around a ceremonial ﬁre chanting
Im' diku Zumba,

Im' biku Zumba,
Singapore Malaya
Hahaha haha ha.
and the medicine-man
would have come charging out and told the
waiting hordes that it was a bwana.
,
For nine years or so, the Malays stood
upto this little fellow. Then a conspiracy
was hatched and the elders told him stories
of the land of Maharajahs, snake-charmers,

tiger hunts and half-naked fakirs and slipped
him over here. Knowing him as I do, I
believe he came over under the impression
that the last mentioned attraction was some-

thing quite diﬁerent from what it really is.
His father had the sense to realize that the.
place for this little demon was a school run.

by the defence ministry, with 6’-6” jamedars
and handle-bar mushtachioed majors galore.
The King George’s School, Bangalore, was
one such school. It was here that I met
this blue-black phenomenon.

At school Santhan was a well-behaved guy
and except for making him do an occasional
half-an-hour

of craWIing over

'un-tarred

roads; doing frog-leaps across the athletics
ﬁeldand a few kit-out-at-4 AM’s, the jamedars
and majors left him well alone. By sheer
perseverance and frequent visits to the
house-master’s, Santhan became the dormitory
leader, and it was his great honour to lead

the nine-year olds

like in the singing of

‘ May we love our Alma mater ’ on ceremonial
occasions. Great powers also went with

the post and he could punish any young
fellow caught peeing in bed.
The early childhood in military surroundings may have had psychological implications
and Santhana Raj decided to go in for Civil .

Engineering and lobbed up here.
After a fortnight in the Institute Santhana
Raj was no longer Santhana Raj'.‘ In his

place stood Fernando da Silva. The same
chap really, (can an Ethiopian change his skin) ‘
but known to his friends now as Ferni instead

of Santhan.
Ferni’s favourite pastime in those days was

insect—hunting. He had a wee-little spear
and used to harpoon insects around the region

of the solar-plexus with it. It earned him the

not, he hired a bike. Anyone who is wearing
a mundu or the ﬁrst time trying to ride a bike
has found out that either the mundu or the
bike must come down. Ferni didn’t have
time for a toss to decide which, so he let both
down. Can’t say the natives didn’t get the
treat.

Ferni is a short distance runner and usually
chases only the first two guys. He is also a
minor Picasso and has won many awards for

painting. Nudes is his speciality and has
drawn to date a green nude, 3 yellow nude
and an expressionist nude, all suffering from
what the doctors would call mammary hypertrophies. (If you are wondering why the
slow deliberations on the nudes, you don’t
know the policy of Campastimes—no sex, no
publish.)
When Ferni leaves India, at the end of this
academic year, he is going to break many
hearts—here and at a neighbouring state, (or
is it a Union Territory P) to which he has
been a constant source of revenue.
it.

I

O

SPY Keki Mehta alias Aspindiarji Opposite the Leather Research Institute-in
the IIT Campus-down the 'Bonn
Avenue-in the Tapti Hostel-Technologist—
wallah. This is a pretty snappy name as far
as Parsi names go. (Aspy has a cousin, who
is called Jamshetji-near the Regal Cinema.beside the footpath-Burmah Shell petrol bunkwallah at home.)
Aspy is a pretty quiet guy (pretty quiet
mind you—not pretty, quiet). Anyway, with
his kind of muscles you’ve got to be pretty
quiet to exist. The only sound he takes the
liberty of emitting is an occasional asthmatic
snort. After reading a Rolls Royce ad, he
has taken a new year resolution—I must do
something about this damn asthma.
One notices a certain touch of the British
spirit above. One is not mistaken, for Aspy
wants to be about as British as 2 Rolls Royce
could possibly get. Spotting an owl the other
night he exclaimed ‘ Upon my soull Isn’t that
an owl T—Very poetic, no doubt. So we’ll
pardon the anatomical discrepancies creeping
into the statement. Aspy believed that owls
being wise birds, stayed only in England.
Aspy’s clothes are impeccable, his drink
gin-and-lime, his manners charming, his

favourite person Queen Farah something or
the other—if only he smoked, he would have
preferred Kent 1
It was centuries ago that Aspy‘s forebear,
Spear makerji Bow and arrow wallah, ran
away from Persia to escape the Muslim
onslaught; that was the fashion in those days.
Such adventurous spirits Were awakened in

Aspy last summer and he decided to take his
factory training at Perumbavoor, some twenty

c—the mobikc’s got to be somebody else’s.

odd miles off the city of Cochin. His life
there was very ordered he told me later. Up
at six—charge to the community well for a
‘ wash—a banana for breakfast and off to the
factory. At noon" another banana for lunch

him about it sometimes). I’m told that

and back to the factory. In the evening

his younger brother, Jkysgopal, is the current
champion in this game.
.
' Couple of summers ago, Ferni went down

yet another, banana and off to bed! At the
factory itself, he is reputed to have calculated the volume of a storage tank (am. by am.
by am.) using charts, graphs, handbooks and
what not.

nick name of ‘ insect ’ and immense unpopula-

rity with the insects. Then, growing up a little,
mentally, he invented a game called ‘ Take-amobike-to-Elliots '. (It’s not a very simple

to Kaela and one morning decided to go out
for a walk—more to give the natives a treat
than for exercise—and having donned the
native garb, set out. Thinking of this and

In the evenings, the anthropologist in him
used to come to the fore and Aspy used to

that, he ended up pondering why he should
not show them a ‘ or two about his

study the natives. Considering that everyone
around there has a reputation for goin

bicycle-riding ﬁnesse. Finding no reason why

around naked to the waist (from :1wa

*

I

It:

I ﬁrst saw Pradip Chakravarthi (Perambur

Chuk to his friends) in the Carpentry Workshop, when we were doing the ﬁrst year.

I was trying to make a dove-tail joint and for
a change of scenery had turned around when,
10 and behold, at the desk behind mine, stood
what looked like an emaciated version of
Alfred E. Neumann—complete with the six
inches grin and all that. The tooth which
should have been missing was not, and for a
moment I wondered whether I should correct
the deletion.
He decided to get friendly and so, said,

‘ Kee bolchich l Bhat are you doing?’ I told
him about the dove-tail joint, and he says
‘ Suchmuch ghood. But, ameetoh doing
Carphontree far the first time’ and so on.
I had an idea that he was speaking pretty
good Greek.
That was ﬁve years ago. Today he speaks
with an accent that is mostly Terry Thomasish with a good sprinking of John Wayne.
For added effect the voice is made to come
from somewhere near the throat itself. (This
is my idea, others have a much lower
opinion.)
‘
With the accent came a cigarette -holderMotivation Research guys have come Out with
startling facts about guys using cigaretteholders, and that is why I don’t see Chuck very
often these days. He, of course, claims that
it adds to his charm and. poise (the cigarette
holder that is, not my staying away from him.)‘It makes me look so much like Zsa Zsa
Gabor,’ he cooed the other day.
Chuck rose to fame with the incident
a la Humanities. At this stage I must intro—
duce his twin brother Sudhip Chakravarthi
(Saidapet Chuck to his friends) doing his
stint in the faculty of metallurgy.
'
During a lecture in Humanities last year
someone ehucked Sudhip’s slippers‘out of
class. Two slippers in the hand is better than
one in the bush, thought Chuck, so he just
got up and, having retrieved his slippers,

resumed his seat in class. This sort of informal stooge acts Was not the favourite .with the
lecturer concerned.
‘
Imagine her: surprise the next day, when
she was handling a class for Chemicals, and a
bespectacled version of yesterday’s slipperretriever walked into class, about 15 minutes
late at that. Pradip was making his presence
felt. He walked up to a rear chair and sat
down. Not comfortable enough! So he gets
up and walks to the other end of the class and
parks himself. All this while the lecturer
is staring at him as if he is some mildewed
piece of refuse the cat has dragged in. She
decides to voice her feeling, ‘ You are not a
student of this class ’, she says, ‘ Sol get out! ’

To which he retorts, ‘Ah don’ quate ketch
yer,’ sounding like a leaking cistern. She was
never fond of leaking cisterns and this sort
of thing wasn’t helping her overcome the pro.
judices in anyway. It is embarrassing for me
to complete thisstory. Most guys can guess
the end to such an episode anyway. If you
are one of the few who can’t, ask Chuck about

it sometime.
, Chuck‘s favourite pastime is visiting the
Elliot's Beach; because, according to him,

he is fond of bathing beauties! Verily, I say,
you can’t be sure you like bathing beauties,

till you have bathed one. What do you say,
Chuck?
Chuck is one of the few fellows, who haven't
applied abroad for admissions for postgraduate studies. Patriotism, no dOubt. He
has also made up his mind not to work in any

p.110 1

