April. I968 3

THOSE PILLARS
OF LEARNING
‘ Was it square on the top ? ’
“Yup, the most perfect square I’ve seen in
a long, long time ! ’ Undoubtedly he had
devoted the better part of his life to the study
of squares. But I didn’t tell him that.

‘ Slightly bulging in the middle ? ’
' Yes just there,’ His outstretched paws
amply illustrating the statement. This, I
liked not one bit—I mean what he said.

Frantically hoping he would say no, I ventured
a bit further.
‘Did it by any chance taper down towards
he foot ? ’
‘ Yes that’s right. How did you guess?’
In his opinion no two people could possibly
have ever seen the same concrete column.
The consternation now almost showed in
my face, ‘ You didn't touch it, did you P ’
‘ Certainly not. Why should I P ’ Clearly,
if there was anything that Chemical Engineers
stayed away from, it was concrete columns.
‘ Didn’t dig at it with your ﬁnger or poke
jest at it, did you i ’ I persisted.
‘ Well, now that you mention it, maybe I
did sort of pat it absentmindedly on the
surface. Surely nothing wrong in that P ’
‘ Nothing wrong i That was one of our
Lecturers l ’
‘ One of your what ! ? l ..... why the hell
didn’t somebody tell me i ’
That sounded like a very sensible question.
For after all simply because a man acts like a

block of concrete (which can talk) there is no
reason why he sh0uld also look like one. But
then again this is just one of those things one
has to see to believe.
It’s things like this that make you tear at
your hair in frustration and wonder why
nobody has ever thought of holding a Seminar
to change the face of those Pillars of Learning.
Granted, priority should be given to other
more pressing matters of the moment such
as the Breeding Habits of The Mosquito, and
.the probable Mental Calisthenics of the
Tarantula but, still, I feel it’s about time
somebody got around doing something for
the students.
When I build my better world the one thing
which is deﬁnitely going to be outlawed is
those intelligent, ultra-brainy top-heavy
Lecturers who cannot EXPRESS themselves.
I know my vociferous denouement of the
ineffectual qualities of the bearers of knowledge
and the guardians of wisdom is not going to
fetch me any bouquets. On the contrary there
may be some very serious imponderables
accruing from this burst of bravado. However,
I feel secure in the knowledge that the
inherent egoism of the faculty is also a force
not to be brushed aside lightly. Each is bound
to think the description better suited to the
other. Needless to say any resemblance to
a Lecturer/Associate Lecturer within the
Institute or out of the Institute would be
better liked out of the Institute.
The issue has to be re-stated. It is not the
qualiﬁcations of the Lecturer that is under
our contemptuous scrutiny. The majority of
our staff possess a high degree of merit—
aeademically. Nobody who is anybody on the
faculty is anything less than a ﬁrst class PostGraduate.

Like I said, no blemish is cast

an the stock of intelligence or the pot pourri
of information at his command. I can, and
will,‘ state that when the occasion demands

he can speak with the same facility and even
gay abandon on heart transplant operations
as cow protection. He is as knowledgeable
on international trade agreements as irreversibility in vasectomy- Then why is he such
an insipid force in the class room? Why
can’t he get through to the students P
For some strange reason known best to
himself, he walks into class with the singlemindednesa of a Buddha whose sole aimin
life is to complete his syllabus as quickly as
possible and vanish. Whether anybody under-

CAMPASTIMES
stands anything or not is none of his concern.
He cannot be expected (time allotted is not
enough) to make you understand the basic
concepts or the practical applications before

proceeding to HOod you with derivations and
equations. However, in all fairness to him,
seeing as how he has just completed his
Master’s degree and is still working on his
Doctoral thesis, it is rather foolish to expect
any practical knowledge from him. liven his
Lecturers couldn‘t have been ﬁeld engineers,
you know. It is this man so painfully devoid
of a practical background, overwhelmed by
petty compulsions unable to look forward
much beyond a snub nose, uninformed of any
proper techniques of teaching, desiccated
of idealism or even of ordinary human
sympathy, who sticks to his narrow syllabus
befouling the air with lewd formulae and
sticky equations, that makes you wonder what
could have possibly gone wrong in his child‘
hood that he should so brazenly opt to
become one of the pillars of learning.
No doubt in certain quarters this singleminded devotion to duty would be considered
more than a virtue. But we do wish they
Wouldn’t act as if the iron entered their soul
while performing their duty. We don’t expect
them to dance a jig or propound upon the
latest in men’s wear in class but it would help
a lot if they could condescend to act a triﬂe
less like chosen men of destiny, strutting
Newtons and would-be Einsteins.
TWO
minutes of light banter at the beginning of the
lecture (or in between, if he ﬁnds the attention
of the students ﬂagging) could get him the
attention and the co-operation of the whole
class and make his lectures much more effective. But we are going too fast. It is necessary ﬁrst to make him understand there is
really no ulterior motive behind a casual
‘ Good morning, Sir.’ It is really a very
frustrating experience to pass a Lecturer in

the Campus and ﬁnd that the minute he gets
close to you he develops a sudden interest in
some distant object just to the left or right of
you. If the encounter happens to take place
in a corridor with no convenient objects to get
interested in, he simply looks right through
you discouraging the most valiant attempts on
your part to tell himwhat a wonderful morning it is. If, however, you persevere and do
manage to blurt out a greeting, the man goes
away fully convinced that there is at least one
person on the Campus, out to better his grades
in the next periodical test.
A prized gem, though not as rare as one

IS
resolved into all its soluble components. It is
then viciously attacked from all quarters, oracularly dissected, until ﬁnally the coup de grace
is dealt with a few eloquent shrugs and gestures signifying complete collapse of the
enemy. And 10! there’s the answer written
neatly on the board. The Only snag to this
otherwise foolproof method is that it becomes
a bit difﬁcult to convey your message to the
examiner by a similar pantomime. These
stupid people expect you to write the answer
on a piece of paper, you know.
However the most surprising aspect of the
whole thing is the fact that there really is no
dearth of erudite Professors and learned
Lecturers who have been abroad and who
know what is happening in other parts of the
world. They are fully aware of the 3semester system and the 5 hr.-a-day, 5-day
week; they know all about the better techniques of examinations and teaching prevalent
in other advanced countries. One would expect such people to raise a few doubts about
our fundamental approach to the problem.
But nothing of the sort happens. Perhaps all
those Bourgeois methods are not suited to
Indian conditions. Periodical questions which
were basically meant to test your understanding of the subject, continue instead to test your
cramming abilities. There is no such thing
(except in very rare cases) as quiz-type question paper, possibly because it takes a longer
time to prepare such questions ; and, besides,
you have to be rather thorough with the subject yourself. All in all, it is far more convenient to test your clerical aptitude and
arithmetical prowess rather than your knowledge. With this aim in view, if your answer
happens to be wrong in the second decimal
place, irrespective whether you know
your subject or not, the conscientious
lecturer dutiftu whittles off 50% of your
marks .............. if not more. Naturally,
it is not the done thing for the Lecturer to
initiate a discussion on the things taught.
That would be considered hob-nobbing with
the students—-—.extremely injurious to the
reputation of the Teaching World. Something that Emily Post would frown upon.
At this sad state of affairs one would expect
voices to be raised, if not in protest, at least'
in alarm." But why bother, since very few

people are going to get jobs anyway? It is
inﬁnitely more desirable to have inefﬁcient engineers unemployed than efﬁcient ones.
—ARVIND JOHARI.

would wish it to be, is the man who, despite

his two chins and bulging mid-rib which must
be the nightmare of every tailor in town,

blithely steps into class armed with a huge
out-of-proportion text book.
‘ Buy one of this,‘ he declares with the air
of one giving you his recipe for long life, ‘ I
am going to follow this author very closely.’
And, without further ado he proceeds to
prove his point by reading it out like a fairy
tale, derivations and all. He does stop now
and then to explain, with the clear understanding that he expects you to help him
wherever he gets stuck .......... which is
after every two paragraphs or so.
Of course in mathematical subjects it is
considered extremely bad practice to solve problems on the board. That w0uld only be
encouraging students to laziness. Moreover it
would be depriving them of all incentive for
constructive study at home, especially so when
they are given all this oodles of time in the
World to browse through the library and otherwise employ themselves in gainful pursuit of
knowledge. After all they have only an 8 hr.
15 min. working day (including the lunch
break) and what if they are expected to put
in a mere 2 hrs. more of extra-curricular
activity? They still have the whole night
free. The important thing to bear in mind is
that we must temper the students for more
demanding research work later on. However,
as a special concession to the average student
in class the teacher may show his magnanimity by carefully writing the problem on the
board.

After that, it is a problem, no more.

By a highly pertinent discussion of the modus
operandi to be followed, the problem is

These Things
Happen . . .
The voice bordered between grim and
oﬁicious:
“ Mr.

Registrar,

I

am the Principal,

Guindy Engineering College. Some of my
boys are threatening to enter your campus
and cause havoc. I have tried to talk to
them. But you know the students these
days. You would do well to take necessary
action.” The phone rang 0E.
The Ambassador which housed the
Registrar left immediately, followed by the

Security Oﬁicer who thundered past looking
as composed as possible. The situation was
tense.
But not for long. Well, you know why . . .
er . . . wasn’t it the First of April?
More of our distinguished personalities
suffered that day. Mr. “Gear” Mani was
summoned by his hostel manager who, in
an SOSy voice, informed him that the
boys had, suddenly turned wild—wrecking the
garden,
messhall,
everything. We saw

Mr. Mani sail past ﬁfty seconds later. My,
myl Isn’t he efﬁcient?
—Campastimes.

