Vol. IX, No.2

liT Madras, November 1970

ANNUAL DEBATE

NEWS

-A REVIEVV
As someone pomted out, all the debators
seemed to have thl> bug about the DaY" That
Made History As one sat through "l very
monotonous recital of these dates-T\\entyfirst of July, 1969, SIXth of August, 1945,
Nmth of December, 1941 not to forget the
Ides of March, H or thereabouts B C -m
VOICes choked with emotion, one could not
but feel whether It was worth gettmg
medIocre Just for a coupla thousand goose
pImples In the audience Anyway, medIOcre
they were, aDd for uS folks who had Jobs to
do, there was no getting away from It.
The tOPIC, whose tawdrmess can be surpassed only by that good old egahtanan
socIety stuff, went hke thIS Orgarusatlon
has reduced man to a spent force And the
way the speakers went about It was maddenmg, to say the least First they had to lug
In all possible hlstoncally significant dates.
When, one wonders, wtll we ever stop hsten109 to bromides like, • On that fateful day
tn the summer of nmeteen hundred and
thtrty-two, a young man who would have
been twentY-DIne come December, sat m that
uncomfortable cockpIt of that great alfshlp,
., The Splnt of St LoUIs" With an unusually
chl\ly spme, and guess what he was domg?
CrosslDg the blessed Atlantlc Ocean, ladles
and gentlemen. That's orgarusatton for you.'
That, and some mmor ImprOVisations on
these hnes
One could hear hule else at the Annual
Debate, but the speakers, haVing started on
a noticeably mediocre note, had to go In for
an even more rIdiculous pOint The prehlStonc man was haUled up time and agam,
and the wretched life poor Adam and Eve
led 10 that wreck of a jomt, the Garden of
Eden obVIOusly due to the highly dlsorgamsed
state of affairs, was elUCidated One cannot
<!uesuon that, though you only have to refer
to the Book to find out how chaotIC It was
III those days
PrecIous few of the speakers
seemed to be aware of the eXIstence of the
Estabhshment, a dIrect result of orgamzatlon
The questIOn whether It IS adorable or contempttble IS by Itself a debatable pomt, but
then, one would have ex:pected to hear the
debators' appraisal of thIS all-pervading aspect
of orgamsatlOD
As usual, the judges haa a tough time, or
so they said, pIcking out the Winners
Mahesh Kumar Khemka was placed first
Kumar, second and P I'll" VIJily, third Th~
earn InCludes Hanharan Shankar and Sudrup
Ghatak also As usual, the Deputy Director
thanked the Judges for commg to the functIOn
and making It an unquahfied success, and In
the process, gave vent to hiS pohucal leanmgs
by havmg a dig at a pohtlcal party Which
cannot pOSSibly find the tOPIC comphmentary
Mter a reduntant and bOring vote of thanks
by one of the CommIttee members the
Annual Debate mercIfully came to a clo;e

Campastllnes.

Ahce Rezmgung opened by Dr. E. C. Ramachandran

lnauguratwn of Photographtc Club.

25 P.

