November 1970J

CAMPASTIMES

3

------------- - --------

REFLECTIONS DURING WILD LIFE WEEK
WIld ammal week IS on agam. It IS time
for us to cultivate patience and tolerance for
each other, m suffiCient quantities to last
the whole year through, till the next time
around students for teachers, teachers for
students, and all of us for the pohtlclans m
office, and the people In pubhc lIfe. It
should not be too difficult, If we recall that
we are all species of the baboon, perhaps not
so colourful m the face as certain other
baboons, but mlschlef-makmg baboons nevertheless, all equally gUilty, and each, therefore, entItled to the tolerance and forgiveness of the others.
ThiS apart, Wild lIfe week IS also a time
when we could qUite profitably thmk a little
of other Wild creatures Particularly for us,
on thiS campus, It is almost a duty, SIflce
we have stolen the entire area from the chi tal
deer, and the black buck, the latter, I am
told, a species strugghng for sun IvaI. One
could wish that the theft had not been, that
the government had put Its actIOns where
Its mouth IS, and had left the anunals secure
m their forest, nggmg up our sordid httle
toys for us, elsewhere.
It IS too late for that now, though. Steal
we did and here we are, and the least we
could do m reparation IS to tread softly,
apologlzmg to the deer, not sweanng at them
when they cross the path of our cars or
motorcycles, or eat the plants we try to raise.
And \\e could also reflect on the ObVIOUS
lesson the situation teaches, concernmg the
-general dealIngs of men, till now, with the
other beings In Nature
• • . Our dealmgs With wild hfe fish,
fowl, or beast, have always been destructive.
There have been, and are, the ObVIOUS acts of
-destruction, on a large or mmor scale dependmg
(In the Circumstance, motivated from conslderat1onsofprofit, or from mere vamty. There also
has been, and continues to be, destruction
aTlslng out of actIOns undertaken by us, not
~onsClously mtendmg harm, but causmg It
all the same, because our actIOns whIle
furthermg our alms, remove the condl;lons reqUired by wtld creatures for their eXistence.
Examples of the first are not far to seek.
\Vhale huntmg, on a large scale, has eXisted
In recent centurIes, and persists mto OUr
times, because of the money value of spermaceti, whale bone and whale 011. Sea-otters
fur seals, and vanous other creatures With
attractIVe pelts or feathers, have also been
much hunted for the same reason, the market
In thIS mstance beIng nch and Idle women.

Klllmg out of vanity, fortunately, has
allVays been on a small scale, smce It IS Man,
the Illdlvldual, who IS involved here, who
has always loved to pull tnggers from a safe
distance from no real need, but Just to
savour that extra thrill of manliness that
comes from watchmg a lovely creature die,
havlllg been the necutlOncr. Of all the
de~tructlOn, thiS appears to be the most un~
profitable, slllce It has no baSIS m real need. Is
not ha\mg to die a very heavy pnce for a tiger,
for Illstance, to have to pay, Just to gratify
the hunter's vamty at havmg out\\ltted It?
InCidentally, I have always thought that
It must be a pretty poor sort of vamty to
denve gratificatIOn at havmg got the better
of a far less IlltellIgent creature. Real gratl~
fica lIOn, I should have thought, comes only
from bestmg a mental equal, and there need
be no kllhng Invoh ed In thiS. Smce not
all hunters are solId granite from the neck
up, they surely must see thiS, so It couldn't
be Just vamty alone. Po!!slbly there IS also
blood lust Illvolved, which, If so, makes the
whole busmess of huntmg even less Justifiable
except III those crrcumstances which legitimIze
It as for Instance, when the ammal elIminated
IS an exception to the general pattern, and thus
an extra-ordmary nUIsance' a man-eatmg
carmvore, for example, or a tusker run amuck.
Ellmmatlon of Wild hfe for profit, or Just
for the fun of It, IS somethmg in which
most of us have not been mvolved. It IS
easy enough to be mdlgnant over the gUilt
of others The test of our obJectiVity, however, Will be when we consider the third
kmd of destructIOn because thIS stems from
the actions of human society as a whole,
and, we, as members of the race, have to
share the gwlt.
Though we do not conSCIously mtend them
harm, Wild creatures are destroyed all the
same, when we, for mstance, wage a largescale war, or reclaim a forest or marsh to
our use, to accommodate our growmg numbers.
In both cases, Wild lIfe suffers, because war,
With Its guns and bombs, knows no dlstmctlon between the haunts of aDlmals and those
of men, and bccause territOrial reclamatlOnthe conversIOn of forest, marsh, or swamp
mto land fit for our occupatIOn, leaves wtld
creatures With no place else to go to, where
the conditIOns are what they reqUIre for
contmued eXistence.
And, of late we have acqUIred yet another
ally m the battle agamst Wild hfe pollution.
We dump enormous amounts of wastes,
ansmg from prohferatmg heavy Industry, and

increaSingly sophIstIcated clty~ltfe, mto fivers
and seas, makmg them lethal to the creature
that hve m' or off them.
In brief then, due to our exploltmg
attitudes, or our absolute preoccupatIOn WIth
ourse\v<!s, needless of the consequences to
other creatures, and because of our refusal,
by and large, to subSCribe to phIlosophical
systems that allot to us the role of kmdly
keepers, conSiderate to other bemgs even
when our own mterests are at stake, our
effect of wtld hEe has been far from benefiCial.
In earher times, our attitudes hardly mattered,
because they could cause lastmg harm to no
other speclcs than ourseh e~, smce we were
then chddren who had not yet cut our teeth,
capable of dehverlng no more than a few
rude blows from which the rest of Nature
could eas!ly recover.
But It IS a different Situation now we
have passed adolescence and have
of
science and technology at our feet, With
fearful engines of destructIOn, and lethal
ways of extendmg our sphere of Illfluence
far beyond the actual areas we oco;:uPY The
time IS rIpe for a thorough fe-appraisal of
old attitudes to Nature and ,\lId Itfe. It is
time for us to Sit and thml{, because now
we have an unLtmlted supply of ablhty and
power, and, actions bemgfashlOned by attItudes,
our attitudes are Important now. The world
of tomorrow depends on the mental frame~
work of the men of today. We cannot go
on, m our old, selfish, unthmkmg ways, and
yet aSsume that tomorro\\ 's \I orld \\ III be the
same, as regards Nature and Wild hfe, as it
IS today, and was yesterday.
The questIOn, then, IS do \\e or do we not
Wish to take With us mto the tomorrow the
world of \\ lid hfe as It eXIsts now ~ I t must
be said here that, m conslden'lg \\ Ild creatures,
It IS naIVe to ask of what use they are. If It
comes to that, of \\ hat use are we? The
purpose of all hfe IS Just to be, and, by bemg,
to glonfy the Creator, or the Life-force, or
the Aesthetic pnnclple, or whatever else one
prefers to call It. Not that wJ1d hfe serves
no purpose Vlewmg the questIOn purely
from our pomt of Vle\\, don't WIld creatures
serve us well, by offermg us breaks III the
dullness of lookmg at each other's monoto~
nously slmtlar faces, don't they satisfy the
longlllg for beauty in us, by merely bemg
there for us to look at and marvel over?
If, m spite of ever) thmg, we deCide to do
without Wild hEe, we have only to go on as we

;11

(Contmued on page 5)

