CAMPASTIMES

I(Y

[November 1970

A

M
U
T

F
A
M
I
L
Y

T
S

H
A
I

R
L

o
o
M

In the beglnmng, there was half-and
plenty of It. The bed-bugs and lice roamed
freely over the surface of his scalp-through
the darkness, and their populatIOn grew and
grew Thmgs began to get a bit overcrowded, till the Big One said, • Let there be
hght.' And Mutts went and had a haircut'
And he was happy on the first day of this
new hfe.
Then on the second day, contrary to his
expectations, frIends began avoldmg him;
the gIrls whIspered behind hIs back, ~tran­
gers passed rude comments. So he did the
best thmg he could: he avoided them And
Mutts wasn't happy on the second day of hIs
new hfe.
And so the sad story goes on
,
He doesn't have much to Itve for now, He's
practIcally cracked up With hIS unfamlhanty
of thIS new secluded hfe. He talks to himself. Some say that he has been seen trymg
to stretch his hairs by pul\mg at them;
others, that he IS always thmkmg of transplantln~ hair-from other parts of hIS body' But
these are just rumours, to be swalJowed With a
wee bit of salt' The fact that IS vt:ry promment
IS that Mutts has taken the shock very well.
He doesn't complam-he sImply can't.

When Mutts first JOined lIT, he had
short haIr-no sideburns-a qUiet mdnncrIn faLt, the very qualities of a perfect
• chlckna '. Then the ~enlOn, started gettmg
fre&h, and that spoilt hIS concentratIOn In
studies He couldn't beat 'hem so he Just
plam JOined them. He sprollted hair, grew
muscles, got the 01' mean and hungry look,
started boxing and soon made qUIte a name
for hln1self The strong and "tIent type.
That wa, Mutts alright'
Talking of boxing, one must dwell for a
moment on Mutts's tvplcal way of boxing In
a tYPical match Mutts Just stares at hIs
worthy opponent and shakes hIS head a bit In
dIsbelief. As the clump of haIr starts unraveling It"elf all over hIs for<.head and rearhead, hIS opponent stares at the phenomenon;
at least, hIs mouth IS Wide open. And that's
when Mutts punches hIm one 10 the kisser'
TactIcs, some idIOts call It' Young Sanyal,
however, overcame the tactiCIan la"t y<.ar. For
further details one should speak to Mutts
hlmsdf.
Mutts IS an inspiring hockey player to see
In action
When he doc"n't feel ltkc defendmg, he Ju~t runs do\\n the flank and at the
last moment, when some dunderheads thmk

that he IS g,)!ng to take the ball ught out of
the field, he rams It with perfect accuracy
mto the Dee, where only a damn fool
hockey player would mIss the golden opportunity to SCore a goal. ThIS year, he's the
Institute hockey captain. and there's no
doubt that this last-mmute centenng of his
IS gOing to get us many goals Now to a less
actll e aspect of hIs lIfe-hiS studIes.
Qu Ite prominent In his class due to his
contmuous spells of dumb SIlence, he IS
nevertheless vcry popular WIth hIs lecturers.
Some of them even like hlm-Unea wouldn't
ml~s hIm In the thickest of crowds' HIS
grades thIS semest('r have been good-he IS qUIte
pleas( d With them-and hl~ periodical paper
lymg on hIS bed, boasting of an A or S
wouldn't have landed up there by aCCident,
Leave It to Mutts'
Just last year a rare wCldent occurred.
Mutts had heard of a H~te, one of those girls'
coU<,ges was gOing to stage. He also heard
that there was a chance of some unruly elements (filce expresslOn-' Unruly elements ')
bemg present WIld horses could not stop
hIm from gomg there. The fair sex had to
be well.protected, and only Mutts could do
It. Sometime later that evenmg a rather
fleshy obJcct was seen approaching Godavana lumbering figure WIth what looked like a
bull's eye pamted all over Its front. Actually
It was Mutts With a kurtha for whIch he had
been suckered <Jut of twenty bucks And
man, what a kurtha' The kurtha has other,
more practical uSes these days.
Havmg gone over most of hiS aCtiVItieS,
let me tell you about the kookiest thmg about
Mutts-hiS name, D. A. Muthanna, whIch
has been expanded for the readers' benefit
reads, DEVAN IRA ACHAPPA MUTHANNA and that sure is some name' So much
about Mutts, who hopes to pass out m July
7I Let's hope he succeeds. Personally I
gnt nothing agamst hIm. So here's wlshmg
him all the best.
KHNUN.

