Yebruary 1970]

CAMP ASTI¥ES

CARICATURE

d m
a e

k
"i

lIer
.BAKROOS

NUT
GUY

n
a

b
a

m

1
a

b
1

a
r
G. Sec.
It's almost the easiest thing in the world to
spot Bala Nambiar; all you have to do is look
for a person wearing atroC'ious clothes, an
asinine expression on his face, and who walks
as if all the cares of the world have been
heaped on his shoulders. Apart from these
distinguishing physical properties, he happ~ns
to be in the final year, and is the G. Sec. of
the Institute Gymkhana. Having been for~
mally introduced to him, you can now buckle
down to the task of getting to know the sort of
person he is.
Bala is known by many aliases, the more
common (and decent) being : Guy' and
C Bakroos '.
For some mystenous reason,
he tried desperately to keep the second, a
family nickname, a deep and dark secret. In
fact he carried the matter to the extent of
thr;atening all family friends, relations and
the like who came to visit him, with dire
consequ~nces, if by chance, they disc!osed his
nickname. Such steps, though drastic, could
not be effective for very long; this is a
fact that our hero has discovered, very much
to his chagrin.
When you look Bakroos in the face, his
eyes are what catch your eye first. These

More PJ's
A crook tried to travel first-class
On a clearly home-ntade pass.
He did,,'t take care,
And he had,,'t the forB - So they threw him out

0"

his R's.
-

EDDIE DALAL.

An actress, returning from a foreign assignment, was asked by a report:er at her home
town, C Miss Shapely,· how does it feel to have
been abroad ?'
Replied" Miss Shapely, • That is a very
uncharitable supposition to make. Who told
you I was one, anyway? '
..

oM<

...

A. stage magician"ended his show with the

extremely expressive eyes have stood him
in good stead, getting him out of the tightest
of spots. When he gets excited, or wishes to
distract the other's attention, his eyes 4iLate
until they seem to fiU his entire face; one
just can't help looking at them, wondering at
their size, and before one knows what has happened, one is caught in the spell they seem to
cast. Many an .unfortunate lecturer has made
the mistake of looking into these eyes while
giving Guy an unpleasant time over a viva.
What normally follows is that the lecturer
in question is made to believe that what he
had told Bala as the correct answer to the
question he had asked, was precisely what
Bala had said a minute earlier. Complicated,
isn't it? Wel1~ everything that Bakroos does
is complicated.
Cards have always exercised a tremendous
influence on him; he knows practically any card
game worth knowing (especially those which
involve business transactions), and can always
be counted on, to fill the gap at any game.
As a complement to his knowledge of card
games, is his knowledge, and fund of card
tricks-tricks that are executed with such
finesse that they leave you blinking. In his
following remarkable item: Said the genius,
'Ladies and Gentlemen, now I'm going to
attempt a feat never done before. I am going
to hypnotise all of you: The audienc~ gasped.
• Extend your right hands straight in front of
you, don't make any noise', and listen very
carefully. Now you're feeling sleepy. . .'
The audience tried hard to keep awalte. Some
closed their eyes and some giggled delightedly.
The magician continued, 'You're falling
asleep, drifting away into sleep. sleep, sleep
• . . you will feel your right arms go stiff ..
you will not be able to move them ... now
they are rigid ••• stiff ••. stiff. Now can
anyone of you move his or her right arm?'
And so he made his exit, the audience waving
their arms enthusiastically. 'Ta-ta!' said
the genius.

3
first year. he went at:ound dazing.; everyone
. with his . adroitness, his seeming po)Vers of
telepathy, and his psy<'hological reasoning. In
fac~. people soon came to be of "the opinion
that, as soon as he was able to toddle, he
must have dazed his parents by asking" them
to pick any card from a pack which he
extended •••
Unfortunately, his card tricks attracted
too much attention. One fateful day, before
he knew what had happened, he had agreed
to perform some ' magic' tricks at a Krishna
hostel function. I think it would be best not
to dwell on all the goofs that he committed.
It is sufficient to say that Bakroos has not
stepped on the stage again, in the guise of a
magician. t
His care~r as a magician-entertainer might
have been' very short-lived, yet his tricks
continue. Sometimes, they yield him rich
. dividends; for instance, at the end of a vaca~
tion he frequently approaches a person he
knows only slightly, but greets him as if he
were a long lost friend. After the usual
exchange df pleasantries, Guy starts off :
, Boy I These hols I learnt a foolproof
method of making money; never was short
of the stuff.'
An avaricious gleam comeS into the other's
eyes as he says: C Really! What's the
trick? '
'1 need a fifty Paise coin for demonstration.
Do you have one on you? '
A fifty Paise coin exchanges hands.
'W-e-ll. See this coin in my hand ?
I rub it here on my forearm •. Watch carefully,
you'll see the coin being rubbed right into the
skin. It's still there. Ha I NoW it's gone.'
The coin has vanished into some recess of
his clothing. Leaving the dazed Owner of the
coin scratching his head, off goes Bakroos,
happier and richer.
Getting down to a more homely quality
of his, it is an established fact that Guy
gets tipsy on anything stronger than a coke.
This, in itself, is bad enough; what makes
the whole', business worse, is, that having
reached an inebriated stage, he develops
homicidal tendencies. Window panes", empty
bottles and loose articles seem to act as goads
to his fury. The result is destruction on a
scale sufficient to set Hurricane Gladys
a-thinking.
In the fourth year, somebody or the other
What was left of
mutilated his slippers.
them was very little indeed-just the strap
part and about half the sole. Yet he
insisted on wearing those slippers for the rest
of the year. Reason? Sentimental value.
The terrific thing about Bakroos and fags
is that although he always has some, one never
feels like smoking them ; you see, he hides
them in his jocks (the ones he's wearing).
He can't resist cro01ting his way through
everything 'that he does, whether it's a game
of cards, o~ the simple act of picking a lot for
a hostel room; he's one of the laziest people
one can dream of; he has a flair for coming
up with the most scorching remark at just the
right time; his taste in clothing is execrable;
he's a genius in all matters relating to electro"
nics; s.ome~~mes he does a complete. volte-face
At other
and begins'to take life seriously.
times, he changes his mind with a dexterity
and agility that would put an eel to shame.The
wonderful thing. however, is that all this is
done with such charm and artistry that it takes
all the fire and venom out of an opponent.
This many-faceted, crazy, mixed~up, extremely likeable perSOll, is Bala Guy Bakroos
Nambiar.

-c.

K.

SHARMA.

