4

CAMPASTIMES

The psgC:hOlogg stntg
Cifc:le sgmposiulD
To the average IITian, the Psychology
Study Circle isn't likely to mean anything
more than, say the Gajendra Circle or the
circlet>. on nis periodical papers. However
there does exist a small band of chauvinists
who think of it as the sumflm"bonum of their
earthly existence. Their idea of the .Good
Life is the conducting of Meetings, Seminars,
Speeches and the like; all ostensibly for the
purpose of imparting the wisdom of Psychology to their less fortunate brethren. Most
of these efforts are successes: the Symposium
under discussion was one that wasn't.
That's why it is impossible to follow
instructions and write humorously about it.
Frankly, there was nothing humorous about
the way the affair was conducted; unless of
cour~e, the thought of an almost empty
CLT, its emptiness emphasised by the fact
that all the desks had been removed in order
to provide room for the expe~ted hordes,
coupled with a few desperate gentlemen trying to pull in just any passerby, sends you
into fits of mirth. I Anyway, I don't think
that was funny: but I can't help feeling
that a couple of NOTlCES put up in the
hostels would haye helped. One solitary
poster, however admirably executed, can't
draw very many people, especiaUy if put up
just a few hours before t~le affair. The
forces of darkness did tell me that notices
had been put up. Unfortunately, even a
careful second search couldn't unearth any of
them.
There is another comment worthy of attention. Cheeky perhaps, but definitely
pertinent: it isn't good policy to have meetings on Saturday afternoons-most of us
hold it as a sacred hour which we aren't likely
to give up unless the reward is very great
indeed.
Now to business ...•
As in many of our functions, the best
speaker was Professor Sampath (the Guest
of Honour), who rambled over the topic in
his inimitable low-keyed manner. You know
what I mean: soft spoken, understanding,
you might almost say comforting when he referred to the attendance and expressed the
hope that there would be more such meetings in future, with more people too I
The vote of thanks which Mr. Govinda:·
rajan gave was the other thing which held
the audience. A very well prepared piece,
with a neat gag about a psychiatrist, it was
definitely appreciated.
In between, I vaguely remember a succession of speakers who talked on this
and that. The swinging fist with which

H. Shankar delivered an emphatic no'
would have endeared itself to Cassius Clay.
His was one speech which didn't have
to depend on the tender mercies of the
mikes, and though I can't say that it
particularly enlightened me about anything,
it was definitely well prepared and equally
well delivered.
I don't remember anything about" the
rest: and Ramaswami's kindness in giving
me copies of the speeches is abs wasted :
I don't see any point in going through them,
when I am q\1ite sure that our man him~
self hasn't bothered to. Besides it would
be a dirty trick to force all those who dodged
the original performance to read about it
now. Instead I'll just mention their names:
J. Radha, S. Rajeshwad, P. T. Narasimhan
(Presidency); Bhuvaneswari (QMC); Neena
(Cultural Acad.); Rebecca George (SIET);
B. Prasad (Loyola) ; H. Shankar (lIT).
For phone numbers etc., you are advised
to contact the organisers who went to great
pains to note such details. One somehow
got the impression that Psychology wasn't
the sole item 011 the programme. No doubt
our relations with other colleges would have
been strengthened as a result. Which is
all to the good.
An interesting incident took place at the
end of the first session.
The audience were told to hop it and fend
for themselves while the I in' set went upstairs for tea. Maybe they didn't want the
Great Unwashed Public barging in on their
affairs, but couldn't there have been a better
solution?
The group
discussion after the tea
had an even thinner audience. Ramaswami
joined one group which discussed tne problems of adolescence, while another group
talked about I the family yesterday and today'.

IITian Cant

dimensions: after all, they have the organisation and money, and if there is anything tha
organisation, money and technology can't do
-in the production line, I have yet to hear of
it. But marketing the fruits of their labours is
a horse of a different colour. I've heard of the
ingenious solution found by the Brazilian
Government for a similar embarrassing dil~
emma. They found that export production of
coffee was far beyond overseas demand. So
rather than flood the market (and bring prices
down), they chose to dump the coffee in
the Atlantic Ocean. This solution, direct
and brilliant though it is, wouldn't suit the
publishing industry, I fear. They prefer
the public to die of a surfeit of compelling
human dramas and powerful tales of espionage
and intrigue. And that necessarily means
they have to peddle their wafes and make
the public bite.
Therein lies the mystery." One would
suppose that any normal"public would be
ill no position to stomach more of the

The IITian and his friend from another
('ollege are talking about 3 film. Th.e ('hap
from IIT says, • Maha flick, I swear, great.
The car-chase was much yar, too sexy. Only
the P.I's were a bit sick and the cabaret
scene "~'1Ta'. A glazed look comes into th.e
friend's eyes. He nods, wondering wh.at hit
him. He doesn't realize that he's just been
given a blast of IITian ca.nt.
Cant is 'voc~bulary peculiar to a particular
class'. It is not necessarily made up of words
that no one else uses at all, but th.ose which
very few others use in exactly th.e same
sense as you do. Almost every educational
institution, especially if it is a residential
one, develops ,its characteristic form of cant.
IIT naturally is no exception.
Consider 'sexy'. Our use of it is far removed from its conventional meaning. To say
that the chicken for dinner was sexy is not
to Say that it oozed glamour and seduction.
Or, when in answer to 'How was the
paper?' after an exam someone says, 'Sexy',
chances are that he is not thinking of
moist lips and a heaving bosom. Again,
though it may startle an outsider to hear,
'Hey, that's a sexy slide-rule', another IITian
will perfectly appreciate the sentiment. In
other words, 'sexy' in the different ways
in which it is used here would mean nothing
to anyone who hasn't lived on this campus.
This is typical of all cant-it is understood
only within a limited circle.
If however, you took 'sexy slide~rule' to
mean a slide rule charged with high~voltage sex,
you would certainly be called a (moron'.
Then this word, anoth.er in our cant family,
will have been used in only one of a hun~
dred ways in which it is employed here.
To mention only a few, the lecturer whose
favourite letter is F, the warden who won't
allow Ted Mark's in the library, the bus
driver who seems to be practicing for the
Grand Prix; everyone of them is a moron.
In this place, to use this word it is not
necessary to know its dictionary meaning:
'an adult with the intelligence of a child 9-12
years old'.
The application of • moron' isn't confined
to people you don't like. ' Hi, you moron "
e Rullo, moron', etc. are
h.armless but
adequate substitutes for certain other more
vivid forms of greeting usually heard here.
And they have the advantage that they won't
shock parent~ and other vulnerable people
who happen to overhear.
A. common" factor of these all-purpose cant
words appears to be th.a t most of them
enjoy a certain limited period of dizzy
popularity and then fall from grace. They
flash across the conversational scene and then
burn out because of their own energy. The
extent to wb1ch the singte word • moron'
once dominated the average IITian's vocabulary is astonishing. You heard it a hund~
red times a day; you read it in every column
of Campastimes; you saw it on table-tops
and black-boards and the walls of the most
unlikely places; in short, wherever you turned,
it was inescapably there. Then like an aging
actress, Moron went into overdue retirement.
Unfortunately it seems to have made a
comeback now.
Another word for all seasons was (or is)
l great' .
The dictionary gives it only one or
two meanings. This hasn't deterred IITians
from giving it several more. Sensations,
emotions and motorbikes; art, architecture
and applied mechanics, al1 these and much
more have been described with telling effect
by the use of this one word. With equal
impartiality, great has been used to describe
actresses and wrestlers, electrical machines
and electric guitars, and an infinite series of
equally unrelated objects.
For an unbearable while there were
more ' greats' in our conversation than legs
on an overgrown centipede. It spotted all
conversation like a bad attack of measles. In
course of time Great too was dethroned. It
hasn't disappeared from use, but it is heard
comparatively less these days.

(Colltimled on page 7)

(Continued on page 5)

P. S. C.

CORRESPONDENT.

Dr Gopalnn-The Moon rock man.
-Photo: Kubendran

The Bestseller List
• A compellitzg Imman drama.'
•A powerful tale of espionage a"d iltt,-igue. '
, A master stol',Ytelier at his best:

• An explosive masterpiece . ..• '
• Full of actz'onpackBd adve1lture. . • •
Critics seem to have a very limited vocabulary when it comes to describing bestsellers.
At least, those parts of their reviews wh.ich
find their way on to the dustjackets of contemporary bestsellers would lead one to believe so.
This isn't surprisin~ considering the number
of bestsellers comtng in for review. Tired
minds think alike, and the critics are overworked. There is no question of that. Even
when they make no pretence of reading
through all of the thousands of pages in each
bestseller, one can tell they are trying to
cover up. The truth is, the average reviewer
hasn't the foggeist idea of what's in the book
he or she is reviewing. He conjectures. The
title is of great help, and the cover design is
of even greater. As to the contents, they
don't really matter. A few superlatives at
random do the trick.
This is the age of thousand-page literary
Qrgies. Even with computerized typesettingtechniques, mass production of bestseller
literature must be a problem. Still, printing
technology and publishing houses seem to be
able to take on anything of contemporary

[February 1970

