February 1970]

CAMPASTIMES

'5

-----------------.----~-----~--.--.-.---. -.--------~------.-:

(IITian Cant-Comd.)
After 'great' the place at the top was
taken by 'sick'. (Very strictly speaking this is
not a cant word. It falls in the category
Qf slang because its use is more or less
univecsal.) For a long time, sick was
the fashionable word to use. And that it was
just I used', would be tha understatement
of the year. Listing the staggering number
'Of uses to which this four·letter word
was put would drive a computer crazy.
The sick quiz, the sick skit, the sick
experiment, the sick weather, the : sick
grub, the sick dame, sick sick sick sick sick
till ¥ou felt literally sick or • disposed to
vomit '. After a long period of use, re-use
2'

overuse and abuse, sick at last let go it's
stranglehold on the IITian tongue. It is
not meant that Sick just lay down and
died. That would be too much to hope for.
After- the decline and fall of Sick, there
was 110 single catchword of exceptional
popularity. • Much' and' Maha' were in
the field, they still are, but didn't quite make
it to the top. Several others like thick' and
• ditch' seem likely to wait forever with pads
on.
,,:1.'11"8, a newcomer, had an excellent
chance, sounding as it does full and mysterious, Unfortunately its colourful expansion
is torture to those who are not familiar with
Hindi. possibly because of this, it seems
unlikely that this will eV'er become cock of
the roost.
I

But there is certainly no cause for despair.
As surely as one periodical follows another;
some new vogue-word will turn up soon.
Some time back, in a hostel-brochure, one
read about a 'PowerfuL batch of P.G's " • a
powerful answer 'powerful chutney •t ind
number of other equally powerful things.
Perhaps here is the new word we have been
waiting for-another of those super-adaptable
ones whose flexibility ensures that the IlTiall
will never be at a loss for words.
Powerful, here's wishing you luck. Let's
see you become the most talked about word
in -this campus.

J.

-S.R.

NAIR.

