CAMPASTIM·ES

~y

GAS
THE CARNIVALWHY?
'Hoy Kake !'
Kake emerged from the bathroom clad in
his customary attire-the latest issue of

Campastimes.

EDITORIAL
Let loose a group of IlTians o~ the sta~e,
and the last thing yoo can expect IS entertamment. The amateur theatre in the Campus
has died a violent death: both the cynical
apathy of the would-be performers and the
uncharitable boorishness of the spirits of the
OAT have had a hand in the murder. These
days even the music dished out at the amphitheatre arOl'ses the worst in the spectators.
No gladiator in the arena would have been
more afraid of the bloodthirsty roar of the
populace than the hapless specimens on stage
are of the explosive throats in the audience,
the pots and pans and bugles, the paper
planes and the inebriated hyenaish mirth
which drowns out everything else.
But it wasn't always so. There have been
instances in the history d the OAT when the
audience were actually che6l'i71/I, and cheering
mighty enthusiastically at that. The entertainment must have been simply fabulous to
elicit that kind of response, you conclude, or
someone must have had announced a holiday.
On two occasions, the former was nearer the
mark, and MCC were on stage.
For the past two years, MCC have ~anaged
to satisfy the spirits of the OAT: In fact,
they have walked away with the R. G. Nara~
yanamurthy Trophy on both occasions. They
have a good chance of performing a hat-trick
this year.
Many an IITian has wondered what exactly
makes for success in entertainment. We
never had the secret, and jf we had, we've
now lost it. The answer is very simpleenthusiasm, enthusiasm all round. There's
always talent, and more can be developed.
But enthusiasm: that's a rare commodity,
especially in lIT, as one man's cynicism can
kill another's enthusiasm.
Coming back to MCC and the reason
why they are so much at home on the stage,
it follows by deduction that they are enor~
mousl)" enthusiastic. And not just the
participants: everyone connected with the
dramatic effort, the whole College in fact,
seems to overflow with the right spirit.
Here is what Spot, the MCC paper, has to
say: c the College play, Arthur Miller's
.. A View from the "Bridge" , wall
just • • • the most. • • • you know, absolutely . • •• Oh God I 1 just can't find
the adequate words to describe it I Tell
you what, collar a guy who saw the play and
ask him how he liked it. You'll see a gleam
in his eyes. That'll tell you how good it
was. • From these words, an lITian might
conclude that the writer was merely being
sarcastic. But no, 'Speaking for myself, this
is easily the best 1 have seen in the past fi~
years •••• '
That is why the formation of the Dramatics Club strikes many as having possibilities.
Will they materialize? Whether they do or
not, gentlemen, let us give them a jolly good
chance.

•

How serious are we ?
Any person asking such a question in the
pages of Campastimes is in danger of being
accused of inCipient Beeveeism. lITians are
n.ot serious, they believe, and they are prepared to be proud of it. Indeed, when a
columnist in a city newspaper recently found
• what is missing from ... Campastimes, is
seriousness,' quite a few IITians chuckled to
themselves and observed that the columnist
had said a mouthful, though not in exactly the
right spirit. The IITian's digestion can cope
with a very limited amount of seriousness,
and that is that. No doubt some of us have
spent time and thought in trying to answer
such questions as • What do students think of
their social environment, the oontent of the

• Yeah?'
• Working up a column for the rag:
'Yeah J'
, Say sometHing.'
, You might get a chance to use the swimm~
ing pool.'
• Please, Kake. The readers have had
enough of the swimming pool, I think.'
'Honest, it's gonna come true at last:
• Quit kidding.'
, Look, we're conducting a Grand Carnival.
Snaz stuff, real1y. The whole Town's going
to be here. We'll pick their pockets clean
and pile them on the garbage truck to be
cleared out.'
t And with two and a half bucks complete
the swimming pool.'
'And a cafeteria.'
C To eat more schidt grub.'
• Darn you!'
t Tell me something other than we're gonna
make a socking profit:
'Wise guy I'

•

*

[February 1970

*

• What swimming pool?' queried Bala,
the G. Sec. I explained Kake's idealism.
, Oh I He's got it all wrong. The main
idea of the Carnival is to bring all the dames
in town to the campus.'
'But how will they come? Our joint's
out in the wilderness.'
, Whaddya think we're arranging bus service
from all the dames' colleges for? We're
arranging to pick them up and drop them
back. Vinoo's got his car ready in case the
buses get a bit overcrowded.'
'Hmm.'
• What's wrong? •
• Who's givin<:t buses? J
C The Regist~r ••••• hey, don't say he'll
ditch? '
That made him thoughtful.
, Shucks, I'll get aU th.e gu-ys with
mo'bikes to co·operate. Dash itt what's a
Carnival without girls? Imagine! A Carnival WITI~:OUT girls ~

*

B's B
It w~s actually Dr. Ananthraman's idea.'
, What good was it supposed to do him l '
'Nothing. He used to win Garden Prizes
for Jamuna. What good did it do him? He's
not selfish. He just does work.'
• Good for him.'
C Remember how he won the Entertainment•••. '
1 remembered another appointment instead.
I wasn't exactly interested in what the
watchman's second wife's third step. mother
said to somebody or the other and that's
where it seemed to be leading up to. 1
wanted dope on the Carnival. ••
I

-AAJoo.
education they are getting, their immediate
experience? What are the factors that create
unrest (if at all) among them?' And last,
but not least. • What is their political thinking
and involvement? ' The point is, few would
have the courage (foolhardiness, some say) to
answer these questions in print, at least in the
pages of Campastim6s. They know what could
happen to them.
Admittedly, what finds its way into the
pages of Campastimes cannot be said to
evidence a high degree (or any degree) of
political consciousness. That ought to
reassure our administrators, who ate definitely
and understandably of the opinion that
students and politics shouldn't mix. But, for
the record, let it be stated that not all of us
ate busy with more important things--a few
IITians do hold forth at length on the intricacies of politics and political philosophy.
Some, indeed, become argumentative in the
mess and entertain everyone in the best
political traditions of friction and hot air.
But these are rare gems, very rare.
•

the Way

Of late it has been pointed out to me that
this columIj: has strayed from the amiable
byways of digression along which it was sup.
posed to meander and ventured on the high~
way of righteous .indignation. Considering
the volume of protest, mild and otherwise,
registered in the middle pages of Campas#mes
in the last few issues, it's time to stop complaining and go for one of our long rambling
walks.
Oddly enough, the road down which I
would like you to accompany me is the one past
the Halls of Residence of lIT, Kanpur.
There are five of them, each housing four
hundred. The doors are painted at random
in lurid shades of blue, green and pink.
Fortunately, the walls are not lilac. (Do I
hear a murmur of C you ought to be talking
with Mandakini right next door'?) The
rooms and messes are better than ours, but we
have the edge where the city and transport to
it is concerned. Why all this gossip about
lIT Kanpur, you wonder. I just thought it
would mak~ a change from hearing about
Kharagpur.· I am as elated as anybody else,
however, about the sterling performance of
our men at Kharagpur. Bravo! bravo!
you ...... did it r

..

..

.

The other day 1 was riding past Gajendra
when a character in khaki blew a whistle at
me and made me keep left, that is, ride all
the way round the Circle. Imagine an lIT
full of traffic cops nabbing you for riding
doubles and cycling after dark without a
light and ...... No, it doesn't bear thinking
aoout. The only consolation is, what with
the budget cuts for lIT, the administration
could not possibly afford it. As for keeping
left at the Circle, I hardly like being forced
to perform pradakshallam around that Thing I

/.

..

...

..

....

Now tha~ the semester system has been in
force for siX months, it's generally accepted
that it has made our lot easier. It is hard to
resist the temptation to correlate the advent
of the semester system with the breakthrough in s,Ports ; admittedly, poor logic, but
human nature takes no account of logic.
Anyway, lotig live the semester system: by the
same faulty logic, it has also given birth to
the Deba~ing Club, the Dramatic Club and
other groups.

.

Some time back, I read a novel by Manohar
Malgonkar. For the benefit of those who
have not yet read his works, here is a Find.
I have since read two more novels by him and
they were possibly even better than the first.
Mr. Malgonkar brings to his books credibi~ity of plot, an impeccable sense of
period, a!ld good English. I am glad to be
able to cite such a convincing refutation of
the odious theory that a typically Indian
si~uation cannot be described in English.
Dissenters, please read The DiGtatlt Drum
or A Combat of Shadows.

*

•

*

There has always been a strong aversion to
officialese, and this is as good a time as any to
count off the favourite local bete noire: As you
are aware, I am desired to inform you, the inmates of this hostel, in confirmation of the
notice of even date numbered, etc. etc. At
times, notices are couched in such ponderous
language that the meaning gets lost in the
welter of clauses. The time has come to
reveal that no notice containing words of more
than two syllables, or sentences longer than
two lines can be presumed to lie within the
powers of comprehension of the IITian.

-So .PARAMIlSHWARAN.

OBITUARY
We note' with regret the passing away
of Sri. S. E. Ravichandran, M. Tech,
Chemical Engineering. May his
soul rest in peace.

