February
1970]
CAMPASTIMES
__________
.___,_ _ _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~7

of ~ye-,4ye

7iq

TAXI TROUBLE
Ten thousand rupees. This amount, arrived
at by a conservative and optimistic estimate is
what IITians spend every year as taxi fare.
That is, travelling to and from Central or
Egmore four times a year costs this privypurse sum. Preposterous? Y('1;, True?
Yes again. Avoidable? For the third time
a very emphatic Yes.
We have a fleet of buses. Excellent vehicles in excellent condition. At least two of
them are kept in safe custody in the garages
while IlTians are forced to travel by cabs and
in the process pay through the nose. Why
this is allowed to happen has been puzzling
many for long. The Institute seems to be
suffering from an embarrassment of riches.
No one expects a shuttle service between
Ganga hostel and Central. But a few judiciously arranged trips to ~eet the more important trains is surely called for. Fares which
ensure that the Institute does not incur a loss
will gladly be paid. For the luggage we could
use our lorry and perhaps another hired one.
&. it is now, the position is often ridiculous. Someone going to Coimbatore, (assuming he has enough luggage to warrant the
use of a cab) pays about equal amounts on
train and taxi fare. However, it isn't the
question of paying a disproportionate sum,
but the question of having to pay at all for a
taxi that is important.
The need for some regularised system of
transport to and from the Railway stations is
so blatantly obvious that it is amazing nothing
has been done about it. We enjoy a vacation.
We'd enjoy it a little better if we weren't
fleeced at the beginning and the end.

BREAKTHROUGH FOR BEEF
The long-drawn-out battle for beef has been
won in one of the hostels. After this break~
through it is very likely that beef will find its
way into the menu in many of the other
hostels soon. Although the proposal to bring
in beef (mainly as a measure of economy)
originated years ago, its realization has not
been possible before because of the rule that
unanimous approval is first essential.
For all the pious 'religious reasons t,
'tradition' • ' Hinduism' etc. liberally dished
out in opposition to beef, there were very
few whose religious sensibilities were genuinely offended. (My reference is to the
hostel where the ball on beef has just been

makers who oppose beef just for the sake of
opposing: just tor the heck of it. These objec~ionable objectors believe, or pretend to
belIeve that bt:ef should be barred from the
mess but either cannot or will not explain
'!hy. They do come up with a few scintillatmg .argumcD1s now and then, but the most
chantable remark that can be made about
thts7 inanities is !hat they do not m~rit discussion. I have It on authority that at least
one of this h,st pack of objectors changed over
to the n?n.Vt'gctarian section of the mess immediatdy after the introduction of beef. Why
suc~ people stuhbornly advocate a cause in
which they then-.selves have no faith is a mys~ery•. Probahly thq derive a perverse pleasure
m bemg able to thwart the wishes of those
who are sentenced to live with them.
If you feel that the beef controversy has
revealed ,how orthodox and unrea.'1oningly
conservative some of us are, here is something that mig:lt cause you to change your
mind. In tI.e Birla Institute of Teclmology
Pilani, .the mess has all along been purely
vegetanan (eggs excepted). Last year there
was a sensational move to introduce mutton.
In spite of stvere opposition the scheme was
alml,st cat! il d through. At the last moment
it was hurriedly abandoned because one of the
students t hreah n,·d that if mutton were allow"
ed to desecrate the mess he would immolate
himself.
At least we have no candidate for
sainthood.

IN THE OAT
There is something about the OAT which
~li~c~urage~ unrdieved seriousness. Perhaps
It IS Its bemg OAT perhaps there is some
subtler reason, like its association with
Saturday evening films. But I for one have
never witnessed a function here that was dead
serious from start to finish. One suspects
that a funeral service in the OAT will produce
a few laughs here and there.
Even a solemn ceremony like the convocation deteriorates, in the OAT, to just another
form of entertainment. Favourites are cheer~
ed wildly as they come on stage and the rest
are either ignored Or received with crushing
silence. As some venerable Head-of~the­
Department speaks, his accent is mimicked in
a dozen places and there is an explosion of
delighted laughter. When the chief guest has
got up to orate and is reminding us that the
future of India lies in our hands, excited
groups in the audience loudlv debate the
cbances of rain and of Monday being a
holiday.
But the deformalizing effect of the OAT
is not always harmless as all of 'US know so
well. It is seen at its worst dlldng the course
of cultural events, when the relaxed, informal atmosphere whips up what is euphemistically called 'audience-participation' to an
unbearable extent.
This year there is a possibility that the
events of the Literary Week will be held in
the OAT. This shift of venue could be
disastrous. Between the CLT and the
OAT, the demands of the audience change
considerably. What might be deemed passable in the first place is usually found want-

lifted.) All of them eventually withdrew

ing in the second. A speaker of average pro·

their objections. That they should have been
able to silbordinate their personal interests,
however justifiable. to the larger interests of
the group in which they live, is admirable.
The pity is that this spirit of tolerance is so
completely absent in some others among us.
Another group objected mainly because it
was misinformed. The misconception most
widespread and difficult to remove was that
beef stinks. But after a promotion campaign
that would have done credit to a Chand
perfume, all doubts regarding smell were
cleared.
In one case there was a near hysterical protest from someone. After the dust had settled
and the smoke blown away, it turned out that
he thought cows would be brought to the
mess to be killed. Fortunately he didn't take
it into his head that he would be asked. to do
the killing.
An affliction common to all the hostels is
that small but determined tribe of trouble..

ficiency would probably be able to hold the
CLT quiet, but chances are that the same
speaker with the same speech would be a
nerve-shattering flop in the OAT. Moreover
an IITilln whether he admits it or not goes to
the OAT hoping to be amused. ~d if the
amusement is not forthcoming from those on
the stag\", he is often willing to provide it
himself.
The thought of Literary Week in new surroundings doesn't exactly thrill one with anticipation. The German recitation alone will
probably go off splendidly. That's because
the audience will be a minority. The Quiz
will be, to use another popular euphemism
• lively' • So very lively that the Quizmaste;
will also have to be a lion-tamer to see that
the audi~nce doesn't make the competitors a
superflUIty. The first few group discussions
will be listened to, regardless of their standard. After that, if one takes on the appearance of a badly rehearsed play or a family

VOTE OF THANKS
We would be failing in our duty if we
d.id not: put on record our gratitude for the
SIncere and spontaneous enthusiasm shown
by certain well-built gentlemen who endeavoured to instill in our poor befuddled
minds the true facts about the football
team's abortive trip to the Inter-University.
If the epsuing picture is still a little confused~
surely we have only ourselves to blame.
Among others, mention must be made of
Mr. M. M. Sanyal, for obvious reasons.
He assures us in no uncertain manner that
personal reasons kept him back from making the trip. The fact that he did attend
a boatin~ r~ga~ta during the same period is
purely InCIdental. The error in the last
issue is regretted. After all, Mr. 8anyal's
veracity in such matters can hardly be
doubted-at least, not until i alse teeth
are sold cheaper by the do~en.
-Campadims~

The Bestseller List-(Continued)
compelling human dramas and powerful tales
of espionage and intrigue that clutter up
our newsstands and bookshops. By now:
t~ey should have had enough of that type of
hterature thrown at them. Compelling human
drama. 1 • • poohl Trying to survive in tocI:'-:>;'s lethal tr~c ~5 compe!ling enough, Ii
VISIt to. the dentIst IS dramatIC enough, and
human 1S the last word to describe any individual with the fortitude to go through a
few thousand pages of bestseller print. But
people do. At least. so one would be led to
beheve from a study of the sales statistics.
I don't pretend to be ignorant of the
powers of advertising. I never did understand the mechanics of how advertising
agencies llersllade the great unwashed public
to b~y one particular brand of predigested
pap 10 preference to another, but I recognize
the fact that they do. Anyhow, I can only
assume that the agencies perform the same
miracle for publishing houses that they perform for other people keen on unloading
their st~ff on the unsuspecting consumer.
What~ver you and I may think of people
who wnte bestsellers, there's money in the
otherwi~e ~retched business., These days,
money Justifies almost any heInOUS crime so
r think you won't be too harsh in your judge!Dent w~en. I confess I have a secret yearnIn~-to IWrlt; a bestseller. Not a big one,
mmd you-Just a thousand pages or so. It
will be , • ~ st~ry so incredible it ~ould only
be trll:e , 1t wdl be • an extraordmary piece
of work excelling in the imagery of a new
literary renaissance: it will also be • an
explosive masterpiece'. It will have sold
2,50,000 copies in the original hardcover
edition ($ 7.50, Popgood & Grooly) and now
be available to you in Pop Paperbacks at a
bargain price of 99 c. Besides all of which.
it will be written by ME, the great and only
ME, author of, OJ Men and Cabbages ;
The Ltl$t Potato Chip$; Mary Mary I
All I need is someone to put m~ on the
bestseller list. Once th.ere, 1 promise to
stay for the next five years. Any takers l

Linotype.
fight, bells will ring like nre-alarms and the
inevitabl~ bugle will be blown. The debaters
will have, to come extraaspecially prepared 'as
they'll have to take on the audience all alone
quite: predictablr, when for the twenty-ninth
ttme In one evenlDg we are being told with
tOUChing earnestness that God is not dead or
why in the interests of world peace the reins
of Government should be entrusted to women
a paper plane will loop gracefully through
the air and land on the speaker's head. Then
there will be desperate appeals for quiet and
decorum from the Chairman or some Secretary and he will be rewarded with quiet and
decorum for a maximum of two minutes.
I hope I will be proved wrong when the
week do?S roll ar~und. .But rig~t. now my
sympathies are entIrely With the VISiting com~
petitors. Luckily for them, they don't know
what they're in for.

-So R.NAlR.

