CAMPASTIMES

8

[February 1970

YARN

The other day, Campastimes in the shape of its editor came down on
my neck and nonchalantly informed me that this time I wouldn't and
mustn't be spared, that I just would have to write something for this
issue. AU my pleading that 'something' was a rather vague topic
on which you could write anything, from volumes to nothing, proved
futile. Surely, after sO many years at lIT, there had to be a host of
topics on which I could write. (My opinion: ~he fellow should have
taken up law instead of engineering, the way he manages to puncture
all your beautifully concocted arguments.) But that's precisely the
dilemma I faced, I told him, hoping that that, at least, would
carry some conviction with him. (It didn't of course. In fact,
nothing did.) As the saying goes: after three weeks in India-or any,vhere else, for that matter-you write a book. after three months, an
article, and then you start thinking twice and refuse to write at all.
(How -seriously one can then take most of the umpty books written on
India and subjects Indian, I have the pleasure of leaving to you, gentle
reader.)
There are strong indications that in this tussle the Publications
Committee, sorry! Editorial Board (and thank heaven for this change \)
approached their Staff Adviser who promptly came .up with a topic I
simply couldn't refuse to write on: Having been its first publisher way
back in '62, why doesn't th.e blighter tell somethinK about th.e birth of
Campastimes 1 Here they had got me with no escape route open on
.any side. Of course, in retaliation I now could spin a tremendous yarn
merrily gassing away about the educational values of a college paper,
-the strong urge to open a channel for the students to vent their feelmgs and opinions, for the staff to gauge t1;leir wards' mind and a1l that
jazz. I won't, I promise.
In the Gymkhana, we had often taUted about entering the news-mart
with a publication of our own, but somehow-the Gymkhana was in
its infant stage and plans and ideas, never realized, were floating about
by their dozens-we never got down to brass-tacks. Then, in July
1962., I received from our then Director, Prof. B. Sengupto, what
amounted to an order ~ bring out a campus p~per with the first issue
dated 15th August, 196.2.
By that time we-a mildly bewildered motley group of students and
• humanitarians '-had everything a paper needs except such trifles as a
name, a press and a registration. So we first established what amounted to an Editorial Board-blessed be the day it was re-established
some time in 1969 I-occupied a classroom in BSB, not because we
were particularly fond of this building, but for the simple reason that
in those pioneering days it happened to be the only departmental
building in exist.ence-I am stilI wonder-struck by the fact that the
-entire IlTM, departments. administration and all, once was able to
function in this one building without a lavish amount of casualties
due to asphyxia-and started discussing the issue on hand sans coffee,
-vegetable puffs and cakes which today seem to be the mainstay of the
Institute Gymkhana judging from the unending stream of bilts the
-office receives, but then were beyond our reach, for that was a long
time before' Kni\?k-Knack 'opened its leave-it-to-us gates.
In the order given abo-ve, we started discussing a name. Should
there have been a philosopher propounding that names cannot be
,discussed, the chap ~as absolutely right: we eventually agreed to disagree and decided to leave it to the brains of the then thinly populated
campus to come up with a hopefully gentle ripple of brain-waves. In
other words, we launched a competition open to the staff and students
alike. The results were shattering: lIT News, Campus Tribu1le, The
Studeld's Times, Student's Magazitte. We lIT-thumbs down on
just every single one of these brain~ripples. A rather bedraggled E.n.
'mentally limped back to 'Taj Mahal', No.2, Crescent Park Road,
Gandhinagar, the then residence of the first publisher of what over
the years has developed into the best campus paper of India-here I
am relying on the judgment of old~timer V. Siddhartha who should
'know-to lick their wounds and, nourished by the cup that cheers, to
-do some thinking of their own. I do not remember which P. P. the
muse decided tEl kiss, but someone of the solemnly meditating round
suddenly blurted out, 'Why not combine" campus" and "pastimes"
and call the thing Campmtimes?' And thus Campastimes-at any rate
the name-entered this world.
That particul~r afternoan turned into evening, and evening inevita.
bly turned into night. If my memory doesn't play any nasty tricks on
me-at times it unfortunately does-we parted at two in the morning
(not unusually late for me, as everybody knows). By then we had
-tried out so many different ,vays of writing Campastimes (see the facsimiles on page I of Vol. I, No. z), we were nearly sick of the newly-found word. What finally emerged as the head you, gentle reader,
:and so many others all over India have become to familiar with, is

the result of the nocturnal doodling of iCampastimes' first publisher
translated into the deft brush-work of the staff artist of our-then still
future-press.
Which brings us to the second trifle: finding a press, or, to be more
precise, a person willing to print whatever we intended to publishby that time, we didn't have a single line to show-and print it the 'way
we thought it should be printed (no doubt, we had big ideas) : Ca1llpastt'mes was to have an attractive format (no newsprint, no thank
you I), the types were to be of the most legible quality, the
headlines in an astounding variety of type. That is where Dr. M. S.
« Micro~Speed ') Vairanapillai entered the scene-a 'humanitarian'
if ever there was one at IITM-and introduced us to the late Mi'. V, M.
Philip of Diocesan Press.
I've promised to be frank, and I'll stick to this promise: Diocesan
Press weren't too enthusiastic about taking up the job, they had a
goodish amount of qualms and hesitations, and we did not blame, nay,we
understood them: there are college papers galore started with a
tremendous amount of enthusiasm and, ~ith enthusiasm fizzling out
(for any campus paper, any paper for that matter, that hopes to survive,
demands less enthusiasm than dedicated \.rork, the emphasis being on
dedicated and work), very soon die an ignomious death justifying not even
a two-line obituary in a local daily. But, somehow, Dr. Vairanapillai
managed to convince Diocesan Press that we would be different,
they accepted reluctantly, we brought the matter: it was type-set
following our by now no more nebulous ideas, we corrected the gal1ey~
proofs getting familiar with' lc " 'caps' 'stet' and all the rest, and again
assembled at Adyar HOs to paste the dummy: banner~like galleys,
a folded sheet of paper the format of what was to be our Campastimes'
a big bottle of gum, a pair of scissors.
Our then Adyar HQs, of course, had a dining~ room with a dining"
table, but both soon proved to be too small. So the E.B. eventu~
ally settled down in the hall pushing aside whatever furniture
turned out to be inimical to our noble enterprise, sitting on the
floor around a still vh-gin dummy.
Of course, the editor. and I had _meanwhile met the Collector of
Chillgleput-in those far-off days tile IIT was lUIder his jurisdictionand had our effort registered as a monthly one: Editor's Name ~
Anand Singh Bawa; Publisher's Name: Dr. Nikolaus Klein-Mr.
R. Natarajan, the then Registrar, decided that 'N' stands for' Nirmal',
hence the pen-name I've used all these' years (good God I'm catching myself giving away secrets I)-Prin'ter's Name: Diocesan Press,
Vepery. There were, quite naturally, a lot more details to be
furnished to satisfy the powers that be that, among other things, we
weren't up to any tricks such as making a huge profit without
letting the LT. blokes know.
Sticklers to rules and regulations
that we are, Campastimes has never made a profit so far (fol'
detailed information kindly contact the Registrar).
.
Back to the virgin dummy around which we sat. We soon attacked
it with. bits and pieces of the above mentioned galleys and pasted them
on it with the above mentioned gum, a sticky job if ever there was
one, and looking at the first result of our endeavours, we weren't
so terribly sure whether Campastim8s would ever be the smashing
thing it proved to be right from its birth. In fact, tired as we were, we
were inclined to consider this six-page affair meant 'For Private Circulation Only' as a major blot on the landscape and were glad to
leave the rest to Diocesan Press. And, boy, did they make something
out of our ghastly dummy I We could hardly believe our eyes when
Mr. C. E. Koshy, the guardian angel of Campastim6s, brought
us the proof-sheets.
Bringing out the first issue of Campastimes was a rush-job~
and this, it would appear, has developed into a cherished tradition.
It is not for me, its first publisher, to pass any judgment on the get~up
and quality of Vol. I, No. I, although, personally, I think both were
good. What then mattered was that on 15th August, right after the
flag-hoisting ceremony, we could present to Prof. Sengupto the :first
few {:opies of Campastimes, the ink still wet, but neatly printed
with hardly any misprints, a standard that I am glad to say, has been
maintained over the years.
If in 1962 it was a reluctant Diocesan Press that Campastimes
approached, that reluctance has long since vanished giving way to a
fondness, the kind a mother feels for her, at times, mildly irritating
child.
And I do hope that this fondness will see Campastimes
through many more years to come.

-N.

KLRlN.

