February 1970]

CAMPAS-TIMES

From."lfere and There

'All of us· have many dreams t~ realise.
After getting a creditable pass in B. Tech..
some wish to go for higher studies, some for
jobs, some to take up private business and so
on. But here is a dream common to all
when we are in IIT-it is to see water in our
swimming pool. Already six batches have
passed out and the seventh one, on the verge
of it. However, this dream remains unfulfilled. So far this pool has been useful only in
assisting the local meterological department
to provide the precise data on the amount of
rainfall on this side of the city. This
collection has tempted those fond of fishing
and during other seasons, its depth has
tempted those with suicidal intentions. TiU
the end of last year we experienced the problem of water shortage and though the
position is a little better now, the filling up
of this • Olympic Size' pool, if it ever materialises, might again create a similar situ3M
tion in the city.

•

•

•

Last term we had the inter-hostel entertainment. competition. Qne thing which
attracted everybo~y's attention during that
period. was the flight of arrows. From ffi)'
personal collection I could conclude that
these arrows were confined to three distinct
sizes: small, medium and big. Old issues
of Campastimes seemed to be the . most
popular material for the amateurs in this
field. A fourteen-page issue of Campastimes
when properly folded, can be turned into
seven medium-sized arrows each 25 cm. long.
Other material often used for this space
flight Were graph and drawing sheets. The
distribution was fairly uniform for all the
items put up on any evening, sometimes
shooting up to maximum during a group
item, perhaps with the idea that the total
number receive~ per head should be a
consta11t. In this context they didn't spare
even the audience for whom it was more like
a pleasant shower of arrows. Even Cupid,
who is supposed to be an expert in this
field, can take a few tips from us. He might
succeed in influencing the heart, whereas

our. products have equ~l a!=cess to other
parts of the body too, sometimes for6i~g the
victim to see the local dottor.

C. S.

LITERARY ACTIVITIES
Open Gro'!lP Disc~ssion: V. S. Krishnan's
team was plae.ed first 11\ the OOD. Th.e other
members of' the team were: V. Mannar,
R. Nirula, S. R. Nair, V. Raja. The second
place was secured by S. Parameshwaran's
team, and the third by G. K. Pillai's.
Brains Trust: The B.T. programme was
held on the fifth of Feb., and was a great
success. The Braittswere: Drs. Anantharaman,
N. V. C. Swamy, Srinivasa Raghavan,
D. V. Reddy, S. Krishnan, V. G. K. Murthy,
K. N. Das, Santanam .

A Survey of Friendship

landmarks of Indo·German Oooperatlon
. . . '204 Capital &. Technical <l.SSlslanCe

00

etta

t

P'OJIICI~

360 ,Joinl Venlures and Colla"oration,
7 Max Mueller Bhavans(Cullur.'Cenlrlt.,
3 TechnlcaIT,.ai""" InShlUle.

{'~t 21 leclure". Bllnd,an Un ..ers,/le.

t
..

8
9

Q:Q

SAS'l'RI.

92 Volunteers (Germa.. VOlu,,'ee, Serv'ce'
3 Ag ..cullural ProJecls
TeleviSion Slud,o New Delh.
Qerman AcademiC EXChanla San,ee <OA.AOJ
Indian Inslilulll or

Technoto~v Madrat

India and Germany- Partners in Progrese

