._--------------,,_.._--

11.

CAMPASTIMES

February 1.970]

-------------------------~.---.-----.------.--------

-----

Letter to the Editor

Sport/olio

The other day I was just thinking-why
was it that our Institute always landed up
last or last but one in almost all sports right
front the time our Institute began ten years
ago? What were we lacking 1 Were we
inferior to the other lITs or was there some~
thing else r The Olympic motto, if modified
to suit lIT, would be something like this:
'To participate and not to win'. In the
following paragraphs I have tried to give the
reasons why we not only haven't won the
overall championship at the Inter-lIT Meet
yet, but have not come near doing it.
First of all, I must say it couldn't be due
to lack of talent. I think everyone will agree
that we have had our quota of talent, and
it keeps on increasing every year. Guys like
Minoo Kalappa and recently Narendra Kumar
have been winning their events with hardly
any practice. Minoo, in spite of his twenty
fags a day, used to wave away his turn in the
high jump event till the bar was at a height
of 5' 6'" 1 So it couldn't be that we lack
talent. It must be something else.
The basic reason underlying our failure in
games is that in our IIT, sports are looked
down upon. You go for a hockey or cricket
match (to participate. mind you I) and what
do you know?. the whole roof tumbles
down on you. When you go to class you get
fired and as if that isn't enough, the lecturer
takes it out on your grades. One person, the
lecturer to be precise, actually believes that a
sportsman should do well academicaUy-hesays
this spoils his chances of getting a job, which
suits him etc .• etc. Now. can you beat that?
Very rarely do the lecturers ever ask that
question, • How did the match go l' or
something to that effect. One is apt to
wonder if our lecturers ever had the opportu~
nity to participate in sports. If they had
experienced the glory that is sports I don't
think. they would have made such a hue and
cry over the cutting of a class, here and there.
This is one of the main deterrents to sportsmen in IIT.
The staff-student relationship in our Insti~
tute is supposed to be very good: at least on
paper. But sad to say, this is not the case,
in reality. The staff hardly meet the boys
other than in the classroom. For the relation~
ship to be effective, they should come and
mix with us (if not tak.e part) on the sporta
field. This little bit of encouragement will
go a long way in helping the performance of.
a sportsman. I was surprised to see the
Kanpur Professors encouraging their boys
during the Meet at Kanpur. I have never
seen anything similar On our own grounds.
Our campus is among the biggest in India,
but the number of play fields are pitifully few.
We have one hockey field, one football field.
and one for cricket. I remember my school.
which had one~sixth the area and half the
number of students, having two hockey fields l
two football fields, and three cricket pitches.
A field after all, is the basic requirement for
any .game. With such few fields, guys don't
like to come to play because they get a chance
to play only after half an hour: the senior
players get theirs first. Chaps have gone to
cricket and not gOt a chance to bat for a week.
Now, no one could expect anyone to continue
turning up for cricket after that. All goes to
show that there is little competition, with the

...

number of sportsmen reduced to few ••
Hence a guy, who gets into any team in the
first or second year isn't normally thrown out
even if another player is better than him.
Another requirement for a sportsman is a
coach. By a coach, I mean a full-fledged
coach-a man who has played the game
himself and is trained to coach-and not
the quacks we see hanging about. What a
team can achieve in a year without a coach,
can be done in a month with a coach. He can
knit the team together into a cohesive unit.
This has been demonstrated to us by the
basketball team, which has remained on the
top for the past three years. The basketball
players give all the credit to their coach.
The most frustrating hurdle for OUr sportsmen is transport. Boy, what a job to get
round the red tape to get a vehicle for a
match ! Only after meeting nearly every
person in the academic building will the van
or bus be sanctioned.. You go bacK. in a
happy frame of mind, thinking that an unpleasant job is over and everything is fine.
When the van comes, you find that it is only
meant to drop you at Saidapet or Guindy and
after that you have to rough it out. I must
say, this is really frustrating. Besides taking
the team comfortably to the field and bringing
them back (when they are dog tired), the van
or bus could accommodate a few of our
supporters to cheer us. Other colleges, like
Christian and the Mocdics always come in a
bus loaded with their College guys, who yell
themselves hoarse. One is bound to envy
them once in a while.
These are some of the main drawbacks that
our sportsmen face. Before I end, I must say
that games can and should go hand in hand
with academic curriculum. After all, a
healthy body fosters a healthy mind. We
should learn from the USA and Europe, where
physical fitness is given great importance.
There is a certain amount of truth in the
age--old proverb • All work and no play makes
Jack a dull boy'. The Eighth Inter-IIT
Meet is drawing near and we are going to be
the hosts. Let us make it memorable, not
only by managing the entire Meet efficiently,
but also by winning the overall championship.
PaEM WATSA.

SOMETHING THAT
SKIPPED THE SPECIAL ISSUE

K. S. DABAS WON THE
Mr. STRONGMAN TITLE

AT THE SEVENTH
INTER-lIT MEET
WEIGHT RATIO 5.9za new record!

Sir,
I have always admired Campmtimes for the
quality of its contents and for the balanced
mixture of gravity and levity. I must, however, object to the appearance of a certain
obnoxious word which appears repeatedly in
• Ein Ledder ., Sept. 1969, and 1 cannot help
wondering how this got past the editorial
board. I believe that it is still the accepted
practice not to print certain words or utter
them in company. I also think that the
• smartness' of an individual should not be
confounded with his ability to use offensive
words freely. The age of Victorian prudery
may be past, but may I ask if the author of
• Ein Ledder " assuming that he is an Indian,
woul4 use equivalent words in his language
with the same frequency?
Sincerely yours,
K. SRINIVASA RAGHAVAN.
Assoc. Prof.,
Department of Metallurgy,
IIT, Madras.
[Mliny thanks to Assoc. Prof. K. Srinivasa
Raghavan foc granting that this is not the
age of Victorian prudery.- As regards his
statement pertaining to the < accepted practice " he would do wen to read Hemingway,
Steinbeck, Wolfe, Pasternak, Sartre, Zuckmayer, Mann, Malaparte. and Norman Mailer,
to mention only a few, in whose wO'tk he will
find a number of t certain words'. These
• smart' people and the writer of • Ein
Ledder' strive to convey ideas much of whose
impact would have been lost had they resorted to the euphemisms and circumlocutions
so beloved of the advocates of purity in word.
Perhaps a clinical description, such as • organic
residue of alimentation' would be more • acceptable " but then, it would kill the joke.
It would be well to remember that Campastimes is a student newsmagazine, and material
suitable for publication in Campaftimes need
not be the same as that suitable for publication in a magazine meant for, say, old maids.
Old maids, it must be admitted, didn't have
the behefit of today's liberalizing literature.
We understand and appreciate Assoc. Prof.
K. Srinivasa Raghavan's concern for the
standards of the magazine, but let us assure
him that no irreparable harm has been done
to the youthful minds of the readers: any such
• harm • would have been done years ago, before they came to the Institute. The professor WQuld be surprised if he could get an inkling of the contents of normal student Conversation: and perhaps, as a future warden, he
should be given a dose of the same. A
human education would necessarily" alter one's
opinion of what is smart and what isn't.
-The Ed£torial Board.J

NEWS IN BRIEFS

Night Rides :
On returning from the ho1s, Hood and
1 found a new bicycle parked in the corridor
of our second floor wing in Ganga. Each
thought that it was the other's bike and we
stole rides to the bathroom at night ••.until
one night both of us got up simultaneously
and discovered the truth.
Now we go doubles to the bathroom !
Return of Siva:
Things came back to normal at Ganga last
evening when Siva (135) received 23 phone
calls in an hour and a quarter. Statistics
collected by the non-veg supervisor reveal
that 70 percent of the calls were from a girls'
college and every fifth caJl was from the
telephon: operator,
or Life and Death:
Another abomination has been added to
the Gajendra Complex. Merging impeccably
with :the ElephantMGraduate~Granduand
combin~tion is this ambassador from the
Security Officer. All that you have to do now
is to take your habitual short cut at the eirclt
and the guard will show up with frantic waves
and whoops of, 'Yo) lept la poya I' .
--'-K:·K.

