ISSUE NO: 8
DA.TE: 21.3.81
EDITORIAL:
The General Body Meeting held last Saturday (14th March)
was very interesting. The Warden, Dr P.Achuthan came with some
points to make and he made them alright. Though some of his
stateme~ts might have appeared childish to some of the 'grown
up' inmates of th~ hostel, there was a lot of sense behind them.
The Hew M2SSY System (is that how its spelt~ WIS rejected
at the General Body Meeting. According to this system, 4 hostels
will have one veg. mess and one non-veg. mess, i.e. all veg. guys
of Alak, Jamuna, Mandak and Ganga go to Jamuna for breakfast,
lunch, tea and dinner while all non-veg. guys go· to Ganga. This
was suggested with a view to decrease the cost and enhance the
quality of the food. 9ut, apparently, the inmates of Mandak were
not in favour of having their grub anywhere else but in Mandak.
They did not mind hooting protractedly till someone was convinced
that the GB had rejected the idea.
This time Mandak will have a very sick Hostel Day - on a
Saturday. There will, of course, be no movie screened on our
lawns. The functionR will begin, regardless of the sun, at 4:30
and end at 6:30 just when everyone is ready to have some fun.
But the ~ain point that was discussed about the Hostel Day was
whether to have h"19 h t e a or dinner!
While the whole hostel is enjoying itself playing Holi,
here we are faces stained with colour, trying to produce something
worthwhile(?) (the question mark was for sceptics, others can
disregard it) for the notice board.

******
CHAUVINISM IN lIT - A Swpathetic ievi'ew
~-Vivekkrishna

De

That Rajiv Jayaraman has boldly come up against the littlethought-of 'Miss-mannerisms' of his inmates is interesting and
instructive. But I am afraid that his points are a bit too shallow
and specious. Here follow some of my observations that might make
me sound less stupid.
First of all, free interaction of sexes is perhans, very
much unwanted by the Institute authorities. How 21se can you
explain the location of the girls' hostel in such a remote corner
of the campus, that only by sheer mischance might you happen to
catch a glimpse of it, let alone its member of your dreams?
This rarity of regular informality has much widened the gulf between
the two sexes.
Secondly, the witnesses of Mardi-Gras '81 which most of as
were, will be the last men in the world to accept that there is
even a modicum of discourtesy in the reaction of Iltians towards
what they call 'chicks'. Never in a Mardigras show, be it West~rn
Music or Dumb Charades or something 'sicker' were the girls howled
at just because they were girls. I should say, the credit for
earning relentless 'boos' in the inter~hostel competitions goes
absolutely to the miserably poor show they invariably put up and
it will be unwise to say that IITians have any sort of prejudicial
attitude towards the fairer sex.
It is the overwhelming ~ajority of the male or rather the
microscopic minority of the female species that has implanted a
vicious seed of insecurity in their minds which, in a large measure,
has estranged them from the bigger chunk of the student population!.
So you see, 'chauvinism' as Rajiv thinks is very much rife
among us, is not a reflection of our parochialism, neither is it
any kind of snobbishness. It is something peculiar to the uniqueness
of the circumstances we are placed in and we are last to blame.
Above all, I think it is a bit too early that we are being
taken to task and that too, for no fault of ours. Let us wait and
see. There are four more years lying ahead of us and maybe the time
when we are able to break the ice is not very far/off.

******

