-

3 -

TIPS TO THE PROSPECTIVE RELATIVE GRADER

---- --

------~----

--~-----

~-----

- N C Suresh

Life in IITM is based on Relative grading. All 1ITians have
unconsciously taken the hypocritic oath of dedicated service to
relative grading. Which, incidentally~was why they started grading
their ~ncles and aunts. (That was a PJ. I hope you noticed it).
Let me give you a couple of tips' on ~elative grading. The
basic thing is that the relative grader should not let it be known
that he is relative grading. Acting just the opposite will give a
feeling 'of security to the other g¥y and our man can casually
relative grade to 10 CGPA.
1
The average time taken to walk at normal speed from one room
to the next is 2.2 sees. Relative grader can make use of this time
to mug while his pal is walking to his room. Saying 'Good-night' and
going into the room is not a bad idea. R. Grader can also tell a
good joke and mug while they are laughing. Able R.Grader can ditch
taking baths and mug while others are taking theirs'. Able R.Grader
can also stop
and mug while others dre
ing.
That is all. I'm not going to give you any more hints. What
will I do then?
'Kyo.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT FOR D BATCH GUYS.
No Chern. Quiz on Tuesday.
\

SOME GOOD JOKES TO LAUGH AT (Laugh as long as you want):
BUsinessman (to Salesman) : Get out, I can't see you today.
Salesman
Excellent sir, I'm se~ling spectacles.
A man has to light a gas stove, two bonfires and three funeral pyres.
The wood has a lot of petrol on it. The gas stove has very little gas.
If he has only one match, which should he light first?
iPl dn lS 44~lew 941 :~aMsuV
MEDICAL AID:
What to do with water on the knee?
Just give it a little tap!

******
THE CHEMIST

--Onglipo Chengoli

He is a chemist. (1)
More of an experimentalist than an observationist. (2)
He toils for the improvisation of indegenous materials. (3)
And he believes in self supporting researchxR3 work. (4)
So he work~ with his and only his! (5)
He works day and night;(6)
Observing its various resonance structures. (7)
[There is a one-to-one correspondence between 'his' in line 5 and
'its' in line 7.]
His results are encouraging
Unlike ordinary systems; his resonance
Results in unstability of the system
And it collapses to a flexible non-vibrant object.
After radiating quanta of unknown characteristics and asymmetric
field vectors
Intermittently.
After he got married recently
He is more interested in hyperconjugation
Than the simple single bonded symmetric resonance.
He says there is a vast scope
In the new field, mainly because
There are a number of stable states
In which the experiment can be conducted.
And he adds The right procedure at the right time
Results in (in the near future)
A new system capable of
Either resonance or hyperconjugation.

******

