Late 1ssue

I IT Madras, September 1969

Vol. VIII, No . I

25 -P.

(t:onvocation
The Sixth Convocation went off in the
usual blaze of coloured lights and bustling
activity. For many, it :was an impressive and
solemn occasion-for many, it signified their
last contact with the Institute. But for those
IITians who will stay behind to witness and
perhaps participate in the seventh and later
convocations, it was something to be entered
into in a holiday spirit. Sufficient to them
were the facts that it was an occasion of
Institute' importance and that Monday would
almost certainly be uncluttered with classes.
The Chief Guest at the function was
Dr. S. Bhagavantam. Sd H. V. R. Iengar,
Chairman of the Board of Governors, IIT
Madras, was also present. The ceremony
began with the invocation. and then started
the procession of graduands. The ritualistic
formula pronounced by the Director for each
group of graduates should have got acrossit was repeated often enough I Hidden in
the words seemed to be a persistent whisper
that this was just a beginning and not the
end of something.
In his address the Chief Guest expressed
the opinion that for young men and women
beginning a career, the best way to serve the
(:ountry would be in the fields of science and
technology. But scientists, he said, should
be aware of their social responsibilities if
the advance of science is not to be attended
by the creation of bigger and bigger problems.
He highlighted the enormous military expe!Lditure undertaken by even the poorest nattons
today, and cited exaIl,lples of what could be
.done if even a fractIOn of such resources
were directed into constructive channels.
He had this to say of teachers and students:
• Recent developmel!ts in some temples of
learning bring no credit to either the teachers
Qr the taught. The teachers seem to confuse
legal power with moral competence. The
taught are in no position to choose between
leftism and rightism and ultimately land
themselves in hopeless wrongism.'
The clouds, forever threatening, contented
themselves with lightly sprinkling the huge
-gathering. That was enough to make the
brand new doctors, masters, and bachelors run
for cover: they had their dinner in the Aero
Hangar. After dinner, they took one last long
look at the mammoth OAT screen, •• and
.at Lord Jim. But for them, that Saturday
night at I1T mu!>t have seemed somehov,;
,different.

-Campastimes

Our Regular Features
eaiforial

cup
Ey fire Way
From J(ere a'la .1here
Sportfolio

gas
S'luare J)ance
'&effers to the eaifor

10
II
10
20
18
10
13
13

Photo : Kllbelldran

Dr Sir A. L. Mudaliar. First Chairman, Board of Governors.

DR MUDALIAR'S
PARTING WORDS:
May I have your permission to speak sitting. Mr President, Mr Consul-General,
Members of the Academic Staff, students and
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I do not know how I can express my feelings on this occasion, overwhelmed as I am
by the very kind words that have been spoken
by all the speakers this evening. The IIT
has been a dream for me for many years.
Perhaps, most of you may not be aware of the
genesis of this Institute. It was in the year
1946, Sir, when the Education Member,
Government o~ India, called for a meeting
of all members of various States, businessmen and industrialists. In a gathering of about
65 people there were two representatives of
the Inter~University Board, my late lamented
friend Prof Siddharta and myself. The
whole morning was taken for discussions and
as we were about to adjourn for lunch, one
of us got up and told the President, now
that we had all these discussions, might we
have a small Committee to consider what
should be presented to the Committee at the
next meeting, The suggestion was accepted
and a small committee of 9 persons was ap~
pointed with Dr Sarkar, who was then a
Minister in West Bengal, as Chairman of that
Committee. It was the decision of this
Committee that led to the various bodies
which now have a say in the Technical and
Technological Education. Being geared to
the University mode of thinking, we started

Farewell Function
There was a function in honour of Dr Sir
A. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar, First Chairman, Board of Governors. on Saturday, 30th
August. Sri H. V. R. Iengar, the present
Chairman of the Board of Govetnors,
presided.
After a welcome by Prof Sampath, an
Address was read and pres~nted by Dr Klein.
Lady MudaIiar was presented with a silver
image of Lord Venkateshwara and two silver
lamps. Following speeches by the German
Consul, a Board member, a Senate member
and a student representative, Sri H. ,V. R.
Iengar addressed the gathering.
The function which was held ,in the ,Aero
Hangar, was, \vell attended.
A bust of .Dr A. L. Mudaliar is: to ~
unveiled at some future date.
with an All India Council of Technical Education which represents the Senate; we had
what is known"las a co-ordinating Committee
which represeqts the Syndicate; we had also
various Boards of Studies suggested., Then
we drew up our plans for four lIT's in 'the
first j.nstance, each to be established in one
corner of India, namely, North, East, West
and South. The suggestion was adopted at
the next meeting and Dr Sarkar was made
the Chairman of this Co~ordinating- Committee and from that time, we went on to worIt
on the IIT's.

(Colttimled

011

page 9)

