September 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

'Fundas is what counfs'
This is the story of Elvis Vikramaditya's unhappy encounters with
interviews. Any resemblance of Elvis to living persons is purely intentional.
SCENE-J
Elvis meets the itlterviewirzg board of a ,'eputed finn oj electrical ellgineers.
Chairman: Hullo. Are you Elvis Vikramadhya?
Elvis: Yes sir. Elvis Vikramaditya from
IIT Madras. You know, IIT Madras is
amongst the best institutes in India. Modeled on MIT lines. Especially the Electrical
Engineering Department.
No need to
mention about my batch: they were the
very cream of India, sir.
Chairman: Indeed? Tell us about your
curricular and extra-curricular activities.
Elvis: We were • S' averagers throughout
the five years, sir.
Chairman: Whom do you mean by • we ' ?
Elvis: My friend and I, sir. We ate together, mugged together, did our tutorials together and got a combined'S' average for
five years. By sheer combined and co-operative efforts.
Chairman: Then we must sclect both you
gentlemen and pay you a combined salary.
Alright; have you held any responsible post?
Elvis: Yes sir. I was a wing representative. Wing rep. was a fabulous post. It was
something like the post of a wing commander
in the Air Force. It carried with it glamour,
prestige, blah blah blah •... above all it called. for a sense of duty and responsibility •..•
Chairman: You seem to have concentrated
solely on extra-curricular activities. Briefly
tell us about synchronous motors.
Elvis: A motor is a machine, though not in
the thermodynamic sense of the term, which
converts kilowatts to H.P. Our Institute
stresses only the fundamentals, sir. Fundas
is what counts.
In a motor, the stator is always stationary.
The rotor always rotates. You cannot find a
motor with a rotating stator; no siree, no
lecturer can confuse me on that. Impossible,
sir! Not until science advances further.
(A peon enters and passes a file of papers
to the chairman who scrutinises them and
addresses Elvis.)
Chairman: I find you were caught for malpractices in your final exams J ?
Elvis: No sir I It was a genuine mistake.
Even the Professor apologised to me later.
My friend and I, as I told you earlier, read
from the same book, prepared the same answers, selected the same questions and answered them in the same order.' It was my
tough luck that his roll number was next
mine. This gave rise to suspicions.
Chairman: I am not yet satisfied with your
fundamentals in electrical technology. Can
you tell me what is cutoff in a pentode ?
Elvis: Cutoff? I'm afraid I cut that class, sir.
Chairman: (Whispers to himself,) It's a
pity you didn't cut your throat instead I
(Aloud:) We'll try another subject.
What is the bending moment of a beam?
Elvis: Ha ha, that's an old one 1- How can
I say? It might bend at any moment it feels
weak. Ha ha •••

Chairman: Mr. Elvis Vikramaditya,
would like to point out that your funda
mentals are not as strong as you feel they are.
I suggest that you give up heavy electrical
engineering and try a light subject like soldering or wiring.
Our hero quits, crestfallen.

•

•

•

SCENE-II
Wiring alld solderi,zg.
Chairman: Could you ~ive us the circuit
diagram for three-phase po\ver measurement?
Elvis: Sorry sir. In three-phase circuits,
we reached only the second phase, sir. Then
the lecturer got married. I can't tell you
much about the third phase.
Chairman: (Shocked) Is this what you
learnt in five years of study in IIT? I am,
giving you a last chance. If you answer this,
you might get a job as an assistant. How do you
measure the temperature of a soldering iron ?
Elvis: Use a radiation pyrometer, sir.
Chairman: If a meter could read up to
300°C and the iron were at 500°C, what would
you do'l
Elvis: Pretty simple, sir. Use two pyrometers.
Chairman: Sorry Elvis. I suggest that you
first do research on the theory of soldering and
then apply for this job.

.

..

CAMPASTlMES COMPETITIONS-I

LIMERICK COMPETITION
Just funny, roaringly hilarious or
rollickingly boisterous: send in as many
limericks as you can cook up. The
printable variety has a chance of winning the prize.

VLADIMIR.

See that your entries reach
THB EDITOR,

CO MPAS TIMES,
225,

Tapti Hostel,

0" or beJore tIle, lSt October.

LOST t LOST 1 LOST t
One numbers baton.
Property of Security Officer.
Finder promised feed at KNICK KNACK.
(Especially if he returns the baton).

*

*

*

WRITING INK TO CURB CRIME RATE !
Latest innovation by Tapti Hostel Attender.
Get some ink-splash it on crosswords.
Crosswords won't be stolen.
Effect guaranteed 1
(For those wise guys who go to the Institute Library: they're considering it there
too.)

*

•

INSTITUTE GYMKHANA
POLICY STATEMENT
This year, the Gymkhana elections caused
a lot of excitement. Well, for better or
worse (let's hope it's the former), I've been
elected General' Secretary. The Committee
consists of a great bunch of guys-Ramani,
Chillar, Harcharan, C.K., Chandrasekar, along
with yours truly. We're all keen to do a lot
of work, and with your co-operation there's
practically nothing that cannot be done.
A number of things spring to mind as
regards the activities and changes to be
undertaken by ,the Gymkhana. Let me
acquaint you with some of them.
There has been a bit of . • . let's say confusion over the Film Club since Shubban gave
it up last year. Unfortunately, this is one
of the biggest thorns in our side at present.
With luck (and much persistence), we hope
to clear up this misunderstanding soon and
the position as it existed in the previous years
will be restored.
A number of complaints were made about
the insufficient facilities provided for the
Science Fair last year. This year, the cycle
of events will not be repeated. The 'Workshop authorities and other departments have
already promised their co-operation. Permission to begin work on projects in the workshops has been given and the interested
people can get down to work right away. I
hope this wiII proyide an added incentive to
prospective inventors and that we can have a
damn good display.
Grouses have also trickled in about the
• nomination' of members and editors for
the Gymkhana publications. Elections to
these posts are also ruled out: We shall try
to evolve a system which is more acceptable.
There seems to be a slight discrepancy in
the representation of girls in the Gymkhana.
The Ladies' Hostel has four Gymkhana
representatives and twenty-five residentsthis distribution is a bit lopsided.. Perhaps
the best permanent solution would be to have
more girls .in the Institute I
Talking of girls, it's time we strengthened
our contacts with girls' colleges in the City.
Any suggestions in this connection (stupid
or otherwise) are welcome.
Generally the freshers are left out of
activities in the Institute; we shall try and
see that this does not happen. The present
freshers seem to be a decent bunch of enthusiastic chaps. Good for them 1
So this brings me to the end of mY.ju)licy
statement. Except for one thing-last year
there was a heavy concentration of work in
the hands of a few people, while the other
members were inactive. This year, nonactive participation will not occur.

-Po

*

BALAICRISHNA NAMBIAR,

Gel/oral Secretary.

.

TEN YEARS LATER: Our man Elvis
has changed. He is now an assistant professor in Civil Engineering at lIT Madras, specializing in bricklaying. He is thoroughly
happy with his job. Anyone of his calibre
would be.

SECURITY DEPARTMENT

Vol. VIn

3

SIXTH CONVOCATION
Chief Spe~ker :
Dr S. Bhagavantam,
Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of
Defence, Government of India.
Prize wilmers:
President of India Prize:
P. Raghavendran, Mechanical Engineering,
3-year B. Tech.
Governor's Prize:
Jashy Paul Kallungal,
Chemical Engineering,
5-year B. Tech.
Special Merit Prize:
Jayant BaHga,
Electrical Engineering,
s-year B. T~ch.
No. of graduands who took their
degrees:
B.Tech.
M. Tech.
3-year
5-year

1'96

125

M.Sc.
30

D.I.I.T.

24

Ph.D.
19

