September 19691

CAMPASTIMES

-------------------

5

------~

REPORT

(!:(\mpastim~.s lJnt~rview.s ~r ~haga"antam
The extraordinary thing about Dr Bhagavantam is that both in
appearance and manner of speech, he is exactly what one 1vOllld
imagine him to be. Campastimes had the privilege of interviewing
him, albeit in a post-official-luncheon session.
Inevitably, we started off by asking him
llbout his 'first impressions' of the Institute.
~ The Institute gave me the impression that it
is well-equipped, modern, ,and most fOl'w~rd
looking,' he answered.
As I was telling
vour Director, it bears a different stamp from
-the older universities. In those days, we in
India at least, had not yet Come to know of
technology in the true sense of the word-for
-instance, the transistor was quite unknown.
From that point of view, such a well-staffed
,and modern institution certainly has a briglit
future.' To be sure, we could have told him
a thing or two at that stage but he was
supposed to do all the talking and not us ..
Campartimes: •Dr Bhagavantam. could
you give us an idea as to how far technology
has advanced in the field of defence, in India
today? •
Well, we did not think of technology help'ing defence before 1963, in my estimate.
The Chinese aggl'ession woke us all up and we
started to think in terms of self-sufficiency for
the first time; hard on its heels came the
1965 shock. The po~nt 1S that ,we c~me to
realize that even foreIgn countnes With the
best of intentions cannot continue to supply
us war equipment under such circumstances.
In the last four years, quite a lot has been
<lone to improve the situation.' He added,
'The tank factory at Avadi, which is a
post-'63 project, is an example. Modern
tanks are made there with a substantial
portion of indigenous equipment. We are
:also self-sufficient in small arms and ammunition and have started to make radar equipment in the country. Broadly speaking,
Indian technologists have eve1'Y reason to be
proud of what they have accomplished in
the field of defence during the past few
years.'
.
We gave him time for a couple of deep
breaths and then asked him for his opinion
·on an oft-discussed topic-whether it was
'worth our while to duplicate so much of
the basic research which has already been
-done abroad when the field of applied re.
search lies quite faUow in the country. Dr
Bhagavantam did not feel that a lot of basic
research was being done in the country. He
said he was a bit annoyed at the way some
yeople were hitting out at such research.
_After aU, t In India technology itself is in a
basic stage and research must go hand in
hand with tec1mology.' He did not want
this to imply that applied research is un~
necessary-far from it, 'the fact is that even
today, we are spending less than one-third
-0£ one per cent of our G.N.P. on all the
l'esearch being done in the country. When
two people are starving, one does not
pause to theori:te as to who is starving the
more.'
• But sir, don't you think that at least in
the future there should be more emphasis
-on applied research?' He agreed heartily.
I The present pattern has to and win change
ill the future. The fundamental principle
:behind all our efforts must be the improve·ment of our national economy. Everything
else is subsidiary.'
Most of us feel rather hot under the
·collar when we watch bureaucrats strangle
technical administration with good old red
tape. Dr Bhagavantam is no exception.
I

• Such people have no conception of tech·
'nical administration; they always mess
"Up matters. It is high time that technical
·men started to devote some of their time
to administration. They have got to set right
their own house.' He carried on vehemently,
., Don't you also think that you must do
your own administration? Some of you may
:not like this kind of work, but you cannot

2.

the fact remains that in certain special fields
like radar and other detection equipment as
well as in large-scale inventory control,
there is no substitute for automation. Still,
the first question asked by the Finance
Department when a computer is introduced
somewhere is, How many men can you
retrench?' -Lots of people are misinformed
all this subject, and they need to be educated.'
That seemed to round things off nicely
and we shook hands with him, the usual
words on our lips. Before parting our Ed
asked him if he had a word of advice for
our readers.
'I never give advice,' he replied. j I
know that it will not be taken! '
Yes S-I-R, you sure are bang on our
wavelength.
I

fight shy of running your own institutions.
Bureaucmts are accustomed to certain methods
in dealing with a country such as ours, and
you cannot expect them to make a good job
of technical administration.'
I Do you definitely think, then, that a ncw
approach is called for ? '
'Well, even now the trend is to get
technical men to do their OW11 administration at all levels. Such men should get
themselves involved in policy matters and
decisions at-the highest levels.'
, Wouldn't that mean cntering politics?
• Nol Politics-well, you must differentiate
between a politician and an administrator.
Politics and policies are made by politicians,
I am not suggesting that technical men
should get themselves involved at that level.
After all, we are considering only a matter
of Administration.' That seemed to close
the topic and we hastily moved on to the
next one.
• Dr Bhagavantam, how much of the information which results.from defence research is
being passed on to the general industries i' '
He seemed to relish the question. 'Defencc
research comes broadly under two categories.
Information gathered in fields like plastics,
chemicals, metallurgy etc., can be passed on
to the industries. As a matter of fact, an
improved form of the barbed wire fence
which was first made for the army is now
extensively used elsewhere. On the other
hand, research in fields like radar and telecommunication technology,
sophisticated
electronic devices, etc., is top secret. For
example 75% of my own work is classified.
However, by and large, we do pass on a
lot of research information to industry.'
That was explicit enough. We then asked
him for a resllme on the progress of automation in defence.
• I do not intend to go into the pros and
cons of automation,' he replied. • However,

-Campastimes .

I

Resu.lts:
Dr. Zuern's Vacation Contests

Competition I :
, GERMANY IN THE EYJ:S OF AK INDIAN.'
I.

B. R. Somiah
S. Subramanian

Competition II :
• SYMBOL OF INDO-GERMAN FRIENDSHIP. t
I.

S. Subramanian

2.

Vijay Sarihan

Colour Entries :
I.

K. R. Vishweshwl1r

2.

Vijay Sarihan

\Vlla't are you doing about tile I"GP Meet?

A firm in Germany ordered coffee from a
firm in the United States. While the coffee
was e" "outB, several bags of the coffee were
broken and rats had rested in them. The
German firm sent the following letter concerning the condition of the coffee on arrival.
Schentlemans :
Der last two paketches we got from you off
koffee vas mit rattschidt gemixt. Del' koffee
vas gute enuff, but der ratt druds schboils der
taste. Ve did not see der rattschidt in del'
sambles, vich you sent us for examination.
It takes so much time to pek del' ratt druds
from del' koffee, ve vas much berturbed, ve

order kleen koffee!and you schipt schidt mixt
mit der koffee it was a mistake, ja? Ve like
you to schipp us der koffee in vun zak and
del' rattschidt in der ober zak, den ve mix it
to suit der kostumer.
Write please if ve schut schipp del' schidt
bek and keep del' koffee, or if we schut keep
der schidt and schiop del' koffee bek, or schipp
der hold schidden vorks bek.
Ve vant to do rite in dis madder, but dont
like dis rattschidt buisiness.
Mit much respect.
KARL GRUMMENHAUSEN.

