CAMP AS TIMES

6

LIFE AND ME
It all happened because of a brain~wave
which occurred to Henry P. Luce a few decades ago. This was the idea of starting Life
magazine. To a lesser extent one can blame
Hedley Donovan, George P. Hunt and ninetyseven others (deployed all over the world)
who are working from dawn to dusk to bring
out, every fortnight, the Lif(J magazine to enlighten and entertain millions. .
I can well understand the questioning look
on your face. Even Sherlock would find it
difficult to discover the connection between
H. Donovan, G. P. Hunt (and ninety-seven
others, of Course I) and the happiness spread
in our batch during the last Physics lecture.
But 1 can explain it.
You see, it so happened that one day Dai
Llellwelyn of Wales deciding to introduce
some humour into his hitherto drab life,
started twisting his face into odd contortions.
He called this highly interesting sport 'gurning' • It caught the fancy of his fellow
Welshmen who, in turn, started to ' gurn' in
their free hours. (One good gurn deserves
another, you know I) When the local Life
reporter heard of this, he rushed to Dai
Llellwelyn's place and photographed half a
dozen faces he made. Hed Donovan, George
Hunt, and ninety-seven others published
them.
It also so happened that on that fine morning (1 mean on the morning of the day when
happiness was spread during our Physics
lecture hour), Halligowda saw Life magazine.
He was very impressed by Dai Llellwelyn's
picture, and paused to read the note beneath.
So he too came to know about gurning.
Being a chap with abundant supply of grey
cells, he started to think at once. ' If Dai
LleUwelyn could make gurning a national
pastime,' he reasoned, • then I too can make
clucking a national pastime.' And being an
energetIc chap, he decided to go about it with
fervour of a fanatic.
Accordingly, in the Physics class (which was
during the first hour), as soon as the lecturer
turned to write something On the board, he
turned and whispered to me,' Hey I I bet
you can't do this,' and then proceeded to produce a Clucking noise.
I am normally a quiet chap. But not
when I come across such an insulting remark.
I replied with scathing contempt, • Oh
yeah "
Halligowda nodded his nut vigorously and
replied • Yeah I '
I was thoroughly aroused. This son of a
bachelor thougl,t me incompetent. I let out
an explosive 'Oh yeah?' and proceeded to
make the above-mentioned sounds loudly.
The Physics lecturer, not being hard of
hearing. turned his face towards the class and
asked, 'WHO MADE THAT SOUND l'
The whole class yelled back, • WHAT
SOUND, SIR 1 '
The lecturer: • That sound I'
One helpful guy ventured out, • Could it he
something like this?' and let out a long
drawn, • Whee .•• eee I '
Another guy,' Or like this? cluckacluck ••• I'
Now the spirit of the game was catching on.
From all corners of the lecture hall came
noises like-' Wee • . eee. • umpa .. crash I
Thud I Meo .• ww I Bow bow! 000 •• 00 I
Yariva riva I Tantara •• I ' and so on.
The lecturer banged on the table and yelled
out, • STOP THAT, I SAY I'
I STOP WHAT, BAR?' shouted the class.
The lecturer: • That noise I '
, Which noise, sir?' enquired the class.
The lecturer gulped. Then raising his face
ceilingwards, he let out a mighty,
'CLUCKTAI'
As soon as the echoes of his mighty
, c1uckta ' faded away, the whole class started
clapping. Some guys went to the extent of
shouting, • Once more ! •
Suddenly Halligowda stood up and said,
'It was me.'
The lecturer, showing intelligence uncom~
mon for him, caught on. • You mean it was
you who made that noise? '
'Yes, sir.'
'Why did you do it?'

[Septell1bel' 1969

SHORT STORY

... . AND BIG FLEAS HAVE LITTLE FLEAS
TO SIT ON THEIR BACKS AND BITE 'EM
AND LITTLE FLEAS HAVB LITTLER FLEAS,
AND SO ON, AD INFINITUM

. The happy bloke walked along the corridor, whistling what he fancied was a dashing
verSIOn of ' Musthafa' and puffing away at a Panama. He had just written a periodical in
which he was certain of getting an S, mainly due to concentrated student co-operation when
the invigilator's back was turned. He intended to take the rest" of the day off to celebrate.
The rosy prospect of a lazy day spent in reading the type of literature he most enjoyed
stretched before him: no wonder he was happy.
Suddenly he seemed to shrink. Gone were
his jaunty air and cocky gait. Abruptly, he
lurne~ aro~nd .and started scurrying off in the
opposIte dlrectlOn.....
Like one who 01J a lOIJely road
Doth walk b~ fear and dread, '
And having OlICe looked back, roalks Olt
A'ld tums 110 more his head,
Because he klloWS a frightful fielld
Doth close behi1Jd him tread!
The frightful fiend in this case being the
lectur~r whose class he was supposed to be
attendmg.
• C'mere,' said the fiend, 'where do you
think you're going? '
The guy turned around with as much Gatl U
froid a~ he could muster. Quoth he, C I wa~
Just gOlllg to class.'
• You happen to be walking in the wrong
direction, mister. This matter shall be reported to the head of the department .•.• or
better still, the Director I' He looked as if
he wan~ed to add that the poor guy's horrendous cnme would be reported to the President
of India and also to God, but had just refrained from so saying. 'You may go ••• and
never again darken the portals of my class ! '
Having made this devast~ting pronouncement,
the lecturer strode on WIth a sunny smile on
his face. His good deed for the day was
done.

..

..

..

The lecturer, whose rather surprising name
was Panduranga Gopalakrishna Sadashivalingam, was called 'Prang' by hls pals.
Prang had just decided to cut the class he was
supposed to be taking. As a matter of fact.

HalIigowda gulped. • You see sir,' he began, • it was because of Life . .• •
C Don't be foolish, I say J •
• Yes sir J No sir J ••• it is really true, sir.
I wanted to get my picture in Life magazine,
sir. So I did that sir.'
The lecturer was mystified. In fact, he
had a doubt. He expressed it.

he was rather scared of the class. Some inquisitive moron in the first bench was sure to
pop up with, • How do you get that answer,
saar? ' or Why do you apply that· operator,
saar? 'Besides which he had to be always on
the alert to dodge the flying paper missiles
that took off from the last benches.
Prang oozed happily along to his department. He lighted a Charm and settled down
to relax with a confiscated Playboy. The
Head of the department rolled up and fixed
him with a glittering eye. Prang squirmed
like a crucified catterpilIar. The Head spoke
uP. 'Mr. Prang:' (the Head had forgotten the
guy's full nam~) I What are you doing here?
You are supposed to be taking a class. It
has been brought to my notice that you do not
take classes regularly. Your conduct has
been reported to the authorities and in future
such conduct ;Will not be tolerated. Good
day, Mr. Prang! '
I

...

.

""

Having successfully reduced Prang to a
gibbering wreck, the Head strolled to his
office. He prided himself on knowing how to
handle malingering lecturers. Smiling broadly, he produced a battered-looking beedi from
some recess in his clothing and proceeded to
light it. The phone rang. It Was the Director and what he had to say was surprising.
, A bigwig on the Board of Governors wants
to yap with ya, ai' boy 1'
The Head was puzzled. What on earth
could the top brass want to discuss with him,
unless ...•
The Big Shot oper.ed up with, 'It has been
reported that . . . • .'
-po C .V. NtJ,.HIN'

Halligowda began explaining.

*.

*

*

It was a few days after this incident that an
M. Tech fellow was thrown out of class for
creating a disturbance. Our lecturer, too, it
seems, wanted to get his picture in Life.
A. Sallkara,1.

