September. 1969]

The Changing
Role of Student
Newspapers
There are well over 2,000 colleges and
universities in the United States. Most
possibly all, have a campus newspaper. Thes~
newspapers vary in size, circulation, printing
method, and editorial quality. Some serve
only students, some an entire community.
Some appear daily, some weekly, some when~
ever enough news items have been gathered.
One thing they have in common is a growing
realization, if not acceptance, that the college
newspaper should be a medium for student
·expression, not just a mouthpiece for college
officials or campus' clubs.'
Once a bland listing of campus events and
administration-promoted • news,' college newspapers more and more are reporting and analyzing local, state, national, and world news of
concern to students.
A recent edition of the Colorado State
University Collegia1t featured protest activity
at Colorado State by Negro and MexicanAmerican groups. (Colorado, because of its
proximity to Mexico, has a sizable MexicanAmerican population.) The paper's coverage
included articles and photographs, guest
editorials by protest leaders, and a collection
of letters written to the paper by students
interested in the subject. There were also a
number of wire service stories on state,
national, and world news of interest to the
.students. Buried deep in the paper were two
columns of small type devoted to scheduled
-campus events. At some schools, those two
little columns in greatly expanded form might
have been the entire content of the paper.
The degree of crusading spirit a paper
exhibits depends largely on its freedom
from university control, either financially or
structurally.
Many papers waver uncertainly between the
-desire to please students and the need to please
the administration. Considering the outright
hostility that now exists between students and
,administration, such a middle course is almost
impossible. The Oberlin Review comments,
, It is easy to let someone say what they want
to say as long as they agree with you. It is
·harder now that we don't.'
Steve Johnson. business manager of the
United States Student Press Association, says
-succinctly, 'How Can the student press en·
.sure structural freedom from the university
while bound to its purse strings? '
Some stuaent newspapers have historically
'been corporate entities independent of the
university-the Haroard Crimson, the Yale
.Daily News, the Cornell Daily Sun. Some
are financially self-supporting through paid
subscriptions and advertising revenue, but
structurally a part of the university. Others
are structurally separate, but financially
dependent. Some are totally dependent.
The Indiana Daily Student, altho'lgh a
self-supporting paper with a circulation of
,over 28,000, until this year was part of the
journalism department at the University of
Indiana. Journalism majors were required to
work on the paper for classroom credit, a
'poor system since some of them were not
interested in newspaper work. The Daily is
reorganizing now so that it will be free of the
journalism department and controlled instead
by a board of students, faculty. and journalism
professionals.
A newspaper structurally free but financially
dependent is the Ohio University Post which
publishes daily at a school of 17,000 students.
The Post is not connected with the journalism
department, but depends on student fees
collected by the university for half of its
$125,000 budget.
The danger of financial dependence is
apparent in the case of the Columbia Daily
Spectator. The Spectator in recent years has
become an independent corporation, but it is
subsidized by the university. University
officials, alarmed by student violence at

CAMPASTIMES
Columbia, claim tbat the paper has become
'an organ of political opinion.' They have
threatened to withdraw their $20,000 subsidy
unless the paper becomes an 'objective source
of news.' The paper could survive without
the subsidy, but it would certainly be
weakened.
Some student newspapers, fearing such
control, are trying now to organize into independent corporations totally free of unh'ersity
1nfl~ence-the Michigat~ Daily, Daily Penmylvaman, and the Queens College Pho/mix are
a few.
A newspaper's potential for independence
may ~inge on ~eography. Most of the papers
mentioned so far are either at large universities
or located in large cities where a paper can
exist on advertising and paid subscribers.
~he small town, small college paper (typically
glven free to students) cannot.
Julie Van Camp is the editor of the Mount
Holyoke Choragos, a paper serving a girls'
college of 1,600 students in a small New
England town. She says, 'Small college
newspapers are basically bad. Many students
do not bother to read .them, and the paper
often has little impact on those who do. More
often than not, the papers are high-schooIish
poorly written, and boring .•.. their finance~
at a bare subsistence level, their problems
with ,administrative censol'Ship overwhelming,'
MISS Van Camp suggests that small paper
editors adopt a leisurely, • in-depth' style of
coverage dealing with topics of wide student
intere,st, ~uch like a ~eekly news magazine.
ThiS bnngs up an 1ssue presently being de~
bated by college editors-the amount of
opinion that should go into a campus newspaper. According to the Oberlti~ R6f.liew
U The reporter for a college or university news~
paper i~ in a pos;ition where i~ is, practically
unposs1ble for hlm to be • objective.' He is
involved in his story from all sides." Other
editors maintain that in order to be believed
by the majority of readers, a newspaper must
leave the opinion to the editorial page.
At le~st 450 campus newspapers belong to
the UnIted States Student Press Association,
a non~profit organization founded in 196~ by
a group of 30 student editors. Its main
activity is the daily release of a news packet
written for, by, and about students. The
Association co-operates with the newly formed
European~based International Student Press
Service and with the Canadian University
Press. It also sends field workers to campus
papers that request help with their operations.
Recently, the Association held its eighth
annual College Editors Conference in
Washington, D,C. Formal papers were presented, government officials and other newsworthy figures were interviewed, group discussions were held. The college press is
coming of age.

-By courtesy of thelUl~ited State,
lnformatioll Services.

ELLESDIDDLB
A hippe brought up on
L, Sand D,

Mixed it with old
Napoleon brmzdy:
Took a swig at the
mixture--Bust an intestinal fixture !
N ow all he sucks is
striped candy.

-RAT

7

I MADRAS AVENUE MAD
I
I

We foresee the day when Campasti7!les sends its reporter to record the
trIbutes and comments of various
persons in the Institute on the death
of an Institute personality. We
visualize the following tributes from:
The Head of the Electrical Engineering
Depar~ment

The fuse has blown, It is a pity -that the
power of his personality has been cut off in
such a manner. Without him, the Department will be a rotorless motor. He leaves
behind a socket difficult to plug in.

The Head of the Mechanical Engineering
Department
It is a bolt 'from the blue. He was welded
to hi~ dep~rtment and riveted to his colleagues,
The mfimte force of Fate has torn him away
from us, leaving a fatigue fracture.
The Head of the Civil Engineering
Department
The news of his collapse has fallen on us
lik~ a metric tonne of granite (IS 2069). His
behefs were based on a solid foundation. The
bond between us was as strong as reinforced
concrete. Our condolences to the rest of the
supports in his family structure.
The Head of the Chemistry Department
The reaction of time with Fate has led to
th,is tra~ic result. He was a colourful personnhty With a fine taste and great affinity for
actlon, He leaves behind two of his isotopes
and one allotrope.
The Head of the Mathematics Department
He has been transformed from a real to an
!ma~i~a,ry plal!:e.. He ,pl~y~d an integral part
m hmltmg the dlscontmUltles among the com::'
plex staff, He leaves behind the first two
terms in an infinite series tending to fill his
vacancy.
The Head of the Humanities Department
No words, German or English can describe
the hi~tory of the man, the psy~hology of his
behaViour or the economy of his living,
The Librarian
He has been taken aw~y from our s(h)elves,
never to be returned, lIke our' books. Only
yesterday I issued him a book on long term
loan.
G. NANnA KUMAR.

IT'S NEVER TOO EARLY!
Overheard: Hey, how about voting me
class rep next year, yar?

