End of an Era-(COlltd. from p.

t ;

col. 3)

Soon, the Calcutta Institute at Kharagpur
was established because Dr Sarkar was
the Chairman and he had the blue-prints.
The next lnstitllte to be established was at
Bombay.
When it came to the Institute in the South,
each of the States thought that the Institute
should be located in their capital-Travancore,
Bangalore, of course, Hyderabad and last
Madras. The question was yery difficult
for the Ministry of Education to decide and
therefore they asked a Committee (of
which I happened to be the Chairman) to
pull the chestnuts out of the fire and give
them a solution. We were asked to meet
the Ministers of the different States to
ascertain their views. This historic meeting
was held in the University and the four
Ministers were there. The Ministers, having
expressed their opinions, retired because
they had very heavy duties to .perform and
the Southern Regional Committee discussed
the question. Within half-an-hour, there
was an almost unanimous opinion that the
Institute should be located in Madras.
The difficulties did not end there. The
requirements were about 650 acres of land,
a free supply of water-you know what
it means in these days-and an abundant
supply of electric energy. We had therefore
to look for a site. We ventured to suggest
with longing and lingering looks that the
Government Estate in Guindy was perhaps
the most suitable site, because they had
1,100 acres and I know that the Governors,
aged people that they are, do not go round
the Campus even once a year. We therefore had a small meeting with his Excellency,
the Governor, Mr A. J. John of Kerala, the
Education Minister, myself, and the Chief
Engineer to the Government and fortunately
we got the 650 acres. The question was
how to get to work on getting this estate
into a reasonable form to serve our purpose.
Perhaps you are not all a\vare of the fact
that at that time this was part of a Deer Park.
abounding in snakes, scorpions and other
species of the animal kingdom. Fortunately,
we had a blue-print prepared by the Ministry
of Education and it was with this that the
first foundation was laid by the late Mr.
Humayun Kabir who took a keen interest in
this Institute. But the buildings were not
there and the Institute had to start working.
It could not wait for all these buildings.
So we poached on other preserves to get
some little space to start work. The CLRI
gave us accommodation for our officers for
which Dr. Nayudamrna has to be thanked.
The A.C. College, of course, came in and
said that they would place their laboratories
at our disposal in the early years. Even the
Guindy Engineering College was willing to
help us. AU that happened because, some..
how or other, the person who was charged
with the duty of the Chairmanship of this
Institute had a finger in every pie and so
they could not resist.
I am glad to say that under the able
leadership of Prof. Sengupto, who was the
first Director, and Mr. R. Natarajan who was
the Registrar, and with the assistance of the
Superintending Engineer Mr. Y. S. Ramaswamy, building after building came up in
this vast campus; and the glory of it all
was that all the great trees were not touched.
The buildings grew up i.n a sort of atmosphere which we call the Tagore atmosphere
in this place. I could go on telling you
more and more of this story, but the most
important event that took place was the visit
of our late Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru
to Germany and it is that that gave us the
foothold for a strong, able, and acade~
mically forward looking Institute here. The
generous help given by the German Government of the day has been continued for the
last so many years both in equipment as
well as in the more important aspect of personnel to guide the work in this:Institute. This
was indeed a treasure-trove for the successful
fulfilment of the dreams some of us had.
And so it came about that the IIT Madras
gained a premier position in the IITs-there
are five of them-and I can say, without

3

9

CAMPASTIMES

September 19691

any contradiction, that it holds a high place
not only in this country, but in the technological world of today. We are deeply grateful
to the German Government for having given
us rhis excellent assistance at a time when
we were just starting life as it were and resuscitating us from time to time. I do not
want to dwell long on these aspects. The
Schools were opened and I see before me
Rev. L. D. Murphy, my oldest adYlsor and
friend who took keen interest in starting these
Schools, the Primary SChool, the Secondary
School, and all that goes with it. We have
many other friends who have helped us in
this cause, many who have willingly given
their services. It would therefore not be
right to say that either the Chairman
or the Board of Governors were responsible for many of the things that have
taken place here. I am particularly happy
that the student population here have 'been
meticulously careful in conducting themselves
in a manner that I have always been able
to pose before my students in the University. There has been a great deal of effort
on their part to prove that they are worthy
undergraduates of this famous Institute of
Technology.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I am really overwhelmed by the very kind thoughts expressed
by you. All that I can say is that such an
opportunity comes once in a life time. If
you take hold of that opportunity. success
will be yours. I hope and trust that on all
occasions, the IlT will take these opportunities and come up par excellellce, the best
not only in this country, but in the whole
world. I wish your Institute all success. I
wish your Chairman of the Board of Gover~
nors every success. It was a great delight"
to me when I relinquished office to know
that my worthy successor is none other than
Mr. Iengar. 1 must thank him for taking
on himself this onerous duty and I am sure
that he will discharge his duty with the
ability that he has shown over a long period
of p!1blic service-as a Secretary to the
Govemment, as a Governol' of Reserve Bank
and in connection with various Institutes
for the development of industry and business.
The fact that he is connected with some of
the most important industries, makes me feel
sure that the link between the llT and the
industrial world will not only be close but
always yield the best results possible. I
thank him for haying accepted the Chairmanship.
I thank you one and all for the great
honour that you have done me and my wife
and I look on this as a red letter day in my
career. Thank you aU.

S"i H. V. R. Iengm', the present
Chairman of the Board of GovemorsThere is no danger of repeating oneself
when talking about Dr Lakshmanaswamy
Mudaliar because his achieyements are so
varied, his spectrum of interest is so wide
that it is not really necessary to repeat one~
self even over a dozen meetings.
, Perhaps the most important contribution
that he has made to the public life of our
country is in the field of the maintenance of
an exceptionally high degree of standards in
the University of Madras. This is not as
easy as it sounds, because we have Univer
sities and Universities both here and overseas; and we have been passing through a.
period of exceptional trouble all over the
:elace. Vice-chancellors have been gheraoed
(I think that is a new contribution by India
to the lexicon of the English language) ; ViceChancellors have been forced oyernight to
submit their resignations; students have been
known to indulge in arson of buses (some
peculiar allergy between students and busdrivers and conductors) j students have been
known to. halt trains by sitting on the track;
they have been known to burn tram~cars and
signal boxes; and in the midst of all this,
there is, remarkably, a singularly free area of
peace, quiet, discipline and good sense in the
University of Madras. There have been a
few ripples here and there, but broadly
speaking this description is correct and I have
been thinking of the reasons why this is so.
w

• The fact that students' minds are disturbed
in India is not really. a matter of great sur~
prise. \Ve have, of course, our own special
swedesi reasons aggravating this disturbance
among the students:' we have the problem
of unemployment for instance.
• Then why is it so peaceful in the Univer~
shy of Madras and in the ILT? I can
only put it down to the fact that as the
Chairman of the Board of Governors of this
Institute and as Vice-Chancellor of the
University of Madras, he has been able, by
sheer force of character and personality, to
infuse in the minds of the student community,
a sense of respect for himself and the institutions of which he has been the Chairman.
The personality of a person at the top and
the sense of respect ·he creates amongst all
those he comes into C'Ontact with are particularly important because of the general area
of indiscipline we notice all round us, particularly in the political field. Politics, in any
country is a pretty strange business. It leads
to all kinds of distortions in personal relationships. The voices in our country now
are rather shrill, personalities have been
indulged in, and the manner in which the
debates have been carried out is such that if
I were a young student, I would not feel a
tremendous amount of respect for the political
leaders of this country. Indeed I have a
feeling that some of the discontent among the
student community arises out of the '!ery
fact that this respect for the political leaders
of the country is rapidly diminishing. It is
in the midst of all these distortions, of all
the sense of indiscipline and insecurity we
have around us, that Dl:' Lakshmanaswami
Mudaliar has been able to create, an
atomosphere of quietness, a love for scholarship and a sense of discipline, a sense of
decorum and good behayiour-all the virtues
which are usually :regarded as conservative
but which in reaHty are ageless.
• I have been tremendously struck by his
methods, by his exceptional sense of discipline,
by his meticulousness, by his anxiety to do
whatever job he takes up, as well as it can
be done. In fact I have often been astonished at the fact that even on relatively small
matters affecting either this Institute or the
Madras Institute of Technology, he devotes
his whole heart. 'and mind to the particular
problem, These are virtues exceptionally
rare and there are not many people in our
country or in other countries in the world
who have a combination of his great vision
with capacity for infinite care for detail and
great meticulousness in the performance of
his daily tasks.
'We wish both you and your wife
long years of health and happiness. When
you reach the evening of your years may it be
a long and pleasant evening. I am sure it will
give you some satisfaction to know that over
your long academic and professional life you
have brought a feeling of discipline and good
sense to a whole generation of students. I
do think that this has been one of the greatest
facets of the 'contribution that he has
made.'

On the o~casihn of the farewell function in. honour of Dr Mudaliar, this is
what the representative of the German
Consulate-'General had to say.
Dr BindseiI :
•..• Wefl'om the German side. Dr. Mudaliar,
have always considered it as a privilege and
honour that you were for so many years the
Chairman of the Board of Governors, as a
person who has the deepest understanding for
the promotion of the Indo-German Co-operation in the scientific field and for all matters
connected with lIT, Madras, as an outstanding example of the collaboration between India
and Germany. . " •• On behalf of the German
Government, on behalf of Dr Karl Pfouter,
our German Consul-General, who is still
away on home leave and on behalf of my
other colleagues and myself in the German
Consulate-General, Madras, I would like to
extend my very best wishes to Dr Mudaliar
for a long and happy retired life.'

*

