10

[September 1969

CAMPASTIME.S

By the Way

GAS

EDITORIAL
Canzpastimes begins the year with a few
cha nges on record-a new committee, a new
editor, and, we hope, new ideas. But the
transition has been smooth, with the result
that Campastimes can proceed from where it
stopped' last year without the necessity of
having to retrace any steps. If we succeed in
our endeavour of maintaining the excellent
editorial standard of the past academic yeat
we shall be amply repaid for our efforts. At
best we can strive to introduce minor techni~
cal improvements in the presentation of the
material that reaches us; any major im~
provement must await a drastic change in the
attitude of the average IITian towards the
idea of writing for Campastimes.
We are very glad that Prof. Sampath will
remain our publisher despite the great dc~
mands made on his time and energy by his
We are fortunate in
other commitments.
having Dr. Zuern for our staff advisor: his
help, enc.ouragement and sugg:estions are, as
always, invaluable.

.

.

~

Sorely missed in the pages of Campasttmes
will be the ace writers who have left the Ins~
titute with the passing of the year. Gope
with his Cup of Aye Aye Tea, and his de~
lightful caricatures, Tee Square, Arvind
Johari .•.. these names have appeared at the
foot of many a column, and the columns were
aU the better appreciated for that. One con·
tributor for whom it is going to be very difficult to find a replacement, is Gnanchandra.
We can only hope that hidden somewhere in
the sea of faces we see around us is talent
comparable to his-and that it doesn't remain
hidden for long. We look to the junior
st~dents to bring their talents into the open;
it would be unkind of them to wait for us to
come and dig them out.

".

'"'

'"'

•

•

The Semester System has finally caught up
with us and it has brought with it some
changes in the curriculum. Opinions vary
considerably as to whether the average student
is the better off for it as regards the work demanded of him-but one thing is certain, a
change has taken place. As with any major
change, some maladjustments are unavoida~
ble: however one does pity the class getting a
thorough grounding in materials technology
for the third year running! .••• not to men~
tion the class blankly trying to understand the
principles of thermal power without the benefit of a previous course in elementary thermodynamics!
.,..
""
The hostel and Gymkhana elections, the
Convocation.,and the month of grace are over
and done with-and the periodicals are
marching past with distressing regularity.
Before us stretch vistas of technical education
and we're all set to absorb. willy. nilly,
another year of it : in spite of our lecturers if
not because of them.

,.

*

Sign at Diocesan Press:
Of all sad words of tongue or pen,
That cause a printer worry,
. Behold the saddest of them aU :
'We need these in a hurry.'
WELL, IF YOU' CAN'T BEAT THEM, JOIN THEM!

OBITUARY
We record with sorrow the death of
Mr. R. Saravanam who completed the
M. Tech. course in 1968. He was in
the Electrical Engineering Department
till recently.

'Hey, papa.'
'Yeah.'
, They're calling me a Commie.'
'Mebbe, there's some measure of truth in it.'
• Oh, come on, papa. It's the gents in
Kerala and Bengal that's commies. I
ain't nuthin' like 'em.'
, Just pink, eh? •
• Heck dad, r dont sec anyting funny.'
, I'm sorry, deal". But, honest, the way you
gave the 01' boy a shove was crazy.'
'I had to'.'
'Sore about sumthin ' "
'Hum.'
• You cant always have your way.'
, I didn't expect them to scrap.'
, You dont have gallant knights in this game.'
• Unity and all such bunk. How did YOll
manage to hold 'em down, pa? '
, Sheer force of personality.'
, Who you kiddin' ? '
'My H'l gal. I .admit things are worse
these days. Why dont you chuck' it up
as a bad job? '
, Like a yellow-livered skunk r '
, She who runs away, lives to fight another
day.'
, Blast, dad, you dont sound like before.'
• Yeah, I guess it's my ghost. But I got
lots of time to think things over these
days. It dont pay to slog like this. It's
much simpler to sit back and have pot
shots at the folks higher up.'
. And I'm just beginning to enjoy the
ruddy scenery.'
• So what, it's a lot calmer up here.'
• Not so soon, dad. I'll convert them yet.
A coupla charming smiles, and boys will
be eating candy outa my hand.'
'Think so?'
'You bet.'
, All luck, precious.'
-AAJOO.

A LOOK AT THE FILM
CLUB
Our Film Club possesses a fine projector,
a mammoth screen and a highly developed
sense of justice. The most commendable of
these is the high sense of justice. This seemingly exaggerated point of view about the
Film Club's finer feelings will not seem
exaggerated any more if one rakes one's
memory to turn up the happenings of a recent evening. A Tamil movie, 'Kuzhandaikagha', was to be screened. True to the IITian
spirit, everyone, Tamilians and non~Tami­
lians alike, had assembled at the OAT. The
officials of the Film Club, however, "vere
worried. Wouldn't it be unjust to the nonTamilians to Screen a movie which none but
the Tamilians could understand? There
were meetings and conferences, brainwaves
and cerebral hremorrhages. But there was
no escaping the facts. To equalise matters,
they decided to screen the movie in such a
manner that the Tamilians, too, despite their
knowledge of the language, wouldn't make
head or tail of it.
Result? They started from the tail, went
all over, brought the head somewhere in
between and mixed the reels in such a way
that the producer himself couldn't have recognised the movie. At the end, they counted
the number of reels already screened, and as
that tallied with the total number of reels
brought, they put the lights on. Wow!
What a success! EverY01le was guessing
wildly, and everyone was equally pleased
about the whole thing, thanks to the Film
Club's high sense of justice.

*

*

*

What goes on in the Film Club is a big
mystery, but what goes on in the projector
room is something that won't bear guessing.
The operator himself doesn't seem to Imow
much about the gadgetry up there. Whether
it be the fault of the machinery, the fault of
the operator, or due to the condition of the.
film, 'we usually wind up seeing far less of the
film than even the censors intended. Perhaps
someone in this great and glorious Institute
has invented the only existing autocensorograph ••.•

-v.

RAMAKRISHNAN.

The beginning of term this year was slightly tater than usual. The very day of com~
mencement coincided with the ep'och-making
walk on the Moon. A new era has begun.
As one writer remarked, the Frontier which
was closed a generation ago has openednever again to close. N ever is a strong word.
but the possibilities now unfolding are bewilde~ing in thei'r variety and complexity. ~To
my mInd, howe-..:el', what this initial achievement has emphasised is that life goes on.
Life goes on as usual in the .face of the mos.t
earth-shaking events, the most sens.ational
technological breakthroughs, the most shattering revelations.
So here We ate, back on campus, with the
new semester system, the old scenes, the old
faces, and dear old familiar hostel food.
And possibly these have occupied us more
than Apollo Eleven. "This.is not unnatural:
sensation palls quickly, and the realities of
life wiU not be denied. The semester system
has been long awaited and ought to be a relief, especia,lly in the trying month of April
when o1!e formerly faced a whole year's ac~
cumulat~~ portions with a sinking feeling.
The legltlmate free hours make us old-timers
wistful. There was an edict in our early
years that no class should be let off, and free
hours in the time table were unheard of. The
iron hand remains, but now one feels the
velvet glove.

...

...

...

Afortnight after the re-opening came the event
of the year, the Convocation. There was a buzz
of activity everywhere; young men with crimson
gowns and young men without (I have never
seen a mortarboard here in all these years)kept
rushing about. A very few of them will stay
on here for graduate study, but for most it· is
good-bye. That twinge of regret, which has
by now become familiar from the experience
of past years, marks the departure of many
who were famous in their day and will soon
fade into uncertain memory. For those of us
who knew the class of '69 personally, however,
some personalities will endure; some events
will persist in recalling themselves. A few of
these have even seen the light of common day.
thinly disguised or heavily marked as the case
may be, elsewhere in these columns. With
typically !ITian irreverence, we may reflect
that we, too, shaIl pass.
The transformation of the OAT is another
matter. It shall not pass without comment.
With all that has ,been said about the grandeur
and dignity of, Nature-Raman, I recall,
waxed eloquent en this theme-must we add
the magic technological touch with a few dozen
coloured bulbs defiling every visible tree?
The arch over the dais defied all description, reducing the most caustic remarks tl)
utter inadequacy. I simply closed my eyes
and pretended it wasn't there. And what,
oh wliat, was that variable bulb flashing affair
that made like a shooting star and whir1igi~,
and generally behaved as if it were very 111
indeed? I heard it described aptly as a combined advertisement fl)r Kassel Fans and the
Gemini Circus. At this tate there will probably be a display of fireworks next time,
starting with an enormous catherine wheel.
Oddly enous-h, there are a few people left
who think 1)£ a Convocation as an academic
ceremony rather than an exhibition of our
deplorable lack of taste and our regrettable
financial ability to illustrate the same. The
Gajendra Circle already serves the latter pur"
pose admirably.
=!Io

=!Io

*

The Gymkhana elections form the next
event on OUr social calendar. Much has
been said about the ethics of IITian campaigning and anti-campaigning. The' defects
of democracy have been frequently decried. A few words on a less philosophical
and more mundane plane would not be out of
place. To begin with, all elections should be
held very early in the year so that the Gymkhana is inaugurated before Independence
Day. Hostel elections one week from the day
of re-opening, class elections two days later.
and the Gen. Sec. Election a week after that,
sounds reasonable. Secondly we should establish a tradition of candidates addressing
the electorate. Whether in the hostel or in
the electoral college of the Gymkhana, voters
are entitled to hear what the policy of every
candidate is, if indeed he has any. What we
(contd. on p. 12; col. I, bottom)

