September 1969J

CAMPASTIM'ES

11

DF 14ye -,'lye Jiq
Like anybody else stepping into someone
else's shoes, I'd like to make a few excuses,
naturally lame, ' ... . :' In the. firs~ pla~e I
don't like shoes. Besldes, steppmg lnto th~
would unsettle the dch caveman aroma soaked
into them over the years and that would
create a rather unpleasant situation.

This state of mind lasted about five or six
seconds-until I saw one of our illustrious
elders making his ponderous way along the
path. And then I was enlightened. r knew
why those. trenches, pit. traps, thorn bushes
and other fortifications had been removed.
That thought was absolutely thrilling. Surely
a project of this magnitude would never have
been undertaken had not one of our wise
sages or their distinguised visitors gone for a
toss! Possibly a learned researcher in Naval
Architecture suddenly found himself in.a
position to carry out fundamental research
about flow past hydrodynamic bodies in a
genuine liquid environment. Or may be a
Visiting Professor of Botany had the opportunity of coming into violent and intimate
contact with some of our abundant cacti.
Or. • .. . The possibilities are enormous,
Robert Burns wrote,
I I'd give the breeks of my hurdies
For one glimpse of the bonnie
birdies!

Excuses aside, Jet me tell you the real secret
--it's part of the Editor's scheme to discover
good writers. TI'Gjl feel that my sacrilegious
attempts on this column would set off a deadly howl all over the place and hundreds of
budding Shakespeares and Steinbecks and
Hemmingways and Shavis would burst out of
their shells with first class articles to replace
this effusion. If such a thing were to
happen. • . . • ah, but will it ?

The Path
Coming back from the holidays involves two
strongly contradictory feelings, that of looking
back with pleasure on two months of holidays
and of looking forward (if that be the phrase)
to somewhat more than that many months of
classes. One of my first experiences was a feeling of mild pleasure on seeing a path which had
been made connecting the Warden's Quarters
and the OAT. A misty contentment crept
into me as I reflected on. the thought that.
at last, somebody. up there had begun to

like us.

And I can think of no birdies bonnier than,
say, a brace of doctorates kheddahed in one of
the regulation size man traps, or a Professor a
la Waterd£tc!e garnished with essetlce de chameltI011 and slashed tree roots having a few frogs
and centipedes thrown in for kicks. If these
thoughts don't seem sublimely delicious to
you, you just can't be norma.l. Yes, it's
extremeIy improper, bad-mannered, childish
and so on to delight at the predicaments of
our elders, but I am sure that, like Burns,
there are many who would gladly give their
pants for a ring-side view of the proceedings.
The only drawback in all this would be the
fact that the poor gentleman might suffer an
injury and have to go to the hospital. Now,
an injury by itself won't be much, but a visit
to the hospital 1s something like seeing a
trailer of where one will be going on account
of one's long and sinful life.

The Hospital
Having arrived at the doctor's, let's stay for
a while and harp on this new theme.

It is quite possible that the hopes many
students have about bringing our medical
facilities out of the Stope. Age are just daydreams, and rather far fetched ones at that.
Certainly one doesn't expect the IIT Hospital
to carry out IIeart Transplants or to dabble
in Neurosurgery, but I think one is entitled
to ask for a level of care slightly above that
given at the Palace Saloon, or a Velacheri
.
cycle shop..
I mean no offence, but it's the custom to
find out at least on which tyre the puncture
is before sticking a patch, and generally some
sort of questiJn like 'Scissors or machine? •
is asked before a mess is made of _your
crowning glory. Similarly, we could at least
expect to be asked at the hospital whether.
for instance, a stomach disorder, meant tOI)
much digestion or too little, before medicines
were prescribed. I don't claim to know
anything about mediCine but I can assure you
that between a loose stomach and a not so
loose one, there lies a. wide and substantial
difference, This difference, r feet, one should
endeavour to appreciate before any meaningful treatment be undertaken. Nowhere but
in IlT can one see an instance where Medical
Science has advanced to the stage where a
common arbitrarily chosen medicine could be
effective on both these starkly opposite cases.
There are also, one believes, many distinctly unsubtle points W11ich could be used to
distinguish between, say. a cold and <1
jaundice, or a flu and a typhoid. Yet these
things have happened.
Personally. ; I feel that one need not go
running to an- encyclopaedia and start eliminating diseases in order to arrive at a diagnosis. N~1l'. for that matter, need a degree .
in Ophthalmology be essential to anyone super•.rising the reading of an eye-chart. In spite
of this a group of prospective Naval Officers
were turned down for just this reason and
they had to ~o elsewhere in their distress.
i don't thmk it's too much to ask for these
basic facilities. Just think of what would
happen if one of the dozens and dozens of
snakes in the campus decided to have a go at
you. (In case you don't know it, we have
cobras, kraits, vipers, adders and all the oth.er
horrifying creatures you read about in story
books about the tropical jungle-You don't
have to go far to find one, we have an authentic tropi<;:al jungle here I) May be if a nice
bloke were ;I!:ound with 11. blade or two, or
some latent vampirical tendencies, you might
have a chance. Otherwise you might as wen
crawl over to the Library, settle down under
a fan, and pass out .reading an extract from
the medical encyclopaedia abollt snake·bite
serums and ~t.tch fabulous things.
Possibly official pCllicy requires a death or
two before anything is dont'. But a student
did land in a week long coma after his fiu (or
whatever was diagnosed,) transformed itself
into typhoid. Luckily, he was taken home by
friends and managed to survive. This seems
to be close enough to a death and I hope it
serves as such. for red-tape purposes. Another
person, bitten by a scorpion had to go to the
V.H.S. He was lucky that it wasn't a fast
acting scorpion, only a painful one.
I ought to say that the cases mentioned
above are genuiIlc and will be substantiated if
(please tum over)

