CAMPASTIMES

12
necessary. The great pity is that nothing has
been done in spite of them. If you have come
across the parable of the Good Samaritan,
you might ha'le wondered about the virtuous
people who crossed over to the other side of
the road to avoid the unpleasant sight. This
is ail very well in the case of characters whose
only purpose is to serve as bad examples in a
story, but it is a bit thick when people
supposedly trained to administer medical aid
deliberately refrain from doing so.

1 am sure that aU of us hope that something
is done before anything drastic happens.
Will it be too much to expect Otl6 Members
Good Samarita1i just for us ?
Extra-curricular Clubs
Coming to a pleasanter topic •..•••
Two new clubs are coming up-The Astro110mical Associatioll and the Class/'cal Cltlb.
The former has got itself established and its
members, I suppose, are spending their nights
happily gazing at the stars. They might also
be vicariously identifying themselves with the
latest moon efforts and even contemplating
shots from IIT-there definitely isn't any
shortage of people who ought to be shot up
there I A time might come when you could
see whole hordes of astronomers parading
round in the evenings with their necks
oriented towards Betelgeuese or may be even
the ethereal remnant of the Jamuna Spirit,
which having got detached from its moorings,
is said to hover around the old hostel now and
again. But this would be all to the good, for
these strange beings pattering round with their
opera glasses, and crystal balls would be sure
to pick up a lot more information than anyone
going through the ritual of formal classes.
The Classical Club is another of this year's
excellent ideas. Most of it has been hushhush so far, but from what I gather it is
mainly concerned with music. The organisers
are going easy on it for they don't want it to
choke on a dose of too much publicity. Since
Dr Klein (remember the neatly organised
German Evening'l) is concerned with it, one
can be sure that when it comes up, it will be
appreciated a lot by persons interested in
classical music and so on, but either too shy
or too lazy to have done anything on their
own. Still, though it seems a very good idea,
it hasn't got on to the runway yet; and one
hopes that unlike many other good ideas which
floated roul,ld the place, this doesn't curl up
-and go to sleep.
-VIKRAM.

By The Way-(colitd.)
have now is a popularity poll based on the
buddy-can-ya-spare-a vote approach.
It comes as a shock that. two inspiring
addresses, which I will cherish, were delivered all of three years ago by Dr Linus
Pauling and Mr Mohan Kumaramangalam.
Three years is a long time. Such stimulus is
needed much more often. I hope the coming
year will bring speakers of breadth of vision
and depth of thought, who will break down
our barriers of complacency and indifference.

-5. PARAMBSWARAN.

[September 1969

SHORT STORY

J:akbpatbi
Sethji was dead I I just could not believe it. . For us, the few poor
tenants of the building, it was startling news. Nobody who had ever
met the Seth would have associated him with illness, much less with
death. It was indeed a juicy bit of news for the few battered hunks
of humanity there.
The tenement as such is not much to
speak about. A ram~shackled and dilapidated structure, with a rusting corrugated tinsheet serving for its roof. It was condemned
long back by the municipal authorities, but the
landlord, reluctant to give up his gold mine,
met the proper persons in the proper manner,
to make the necessary adjustments. Thus
the building missed meeting death at the
hands of the demolition squad.
The tenants, too, are not important. The
ground floor was rented out by S ••..•••
a girl of easy virtues. It served her (adequately), both as office and residence. Part
of the middle floor is rented out by me. The
other half was the Sethji's abode. In the
upper floor was Dr Khan. He had his
clinic there. He was rich enough to rent
out a bigger and better place, but for his
not-so-legal practice, this place was well
suited. So Sethji and I lived there, between
the two dirty professionals, between passion
and the destruction of its creation.
The neWs of 5ethji's death had by now
permeated all the crooked corners of the
mohulla. People, for want of a better thing
to do. were crowding before our building. A
few, who were more inquisitive, had managed
to move up to our floor. I could see a group
of them standing near the stairs.
I moved into the Sethji's room. There he
lay fully stretched on his cot. In his left
hand he was clutching a newspaper. Even

Time passed. The news of his death had
become stale now and he was now forgotten.
For the poor, death is a daily affair, and so
Sethji's death was just another ordinary
occurrence. His room was now uncared for.
(The landlord could find nobody to rent it.)

I was still intrigued by his sudden death.
I just could not digest the cause given by
our Dr. Khan. After all, diseases like heart~
attack are for the chosen and rich. And our
Sethji was certainly not rich by any standards.
So I wondered but could not solve the
riddle I

•
It all happened by chance. It was a month
now after his (I mean the Seth's) death. I
happened to go into his room. (Do not ask
me why.) The floor was by now coated with
dust and I had to step very gingerly across
the floor to keep the dust down. Then I
noticed on the wall some number written in
the familiar scribble of the Sethji. I went
closer and looked. It was indeed a numberUF 765421. I wondered if it could be the
number connected with some lottery I
Then I remembered everything. It was
indeed a lottery ticket number. I recalled a
conversation with the Seth a few days before
his death. He had -mentioned then that he
too had got the • aasha' of becoming a
lottery , lakhpathi ' that day and had bought

The tenement is a rnl1lshackcd nnd dilapidated structure .••.•

dead, he looked huge to me. When alive, he
used to be loud~mouthed and domineering and
before him I had always felt insignificant.
But now. I thought, I was more powerful.
His room was a plain and unfurnished one.
He had very few things to call his<Siown• A
few tattered books, a threadbare blanket and
a couple of dhothis. He was making very
little every week and whatever he earned, he
spent on keeping himself well-fed. He had
told me once that he did not believe in
saving, as he had nobody to whom he could
leave his savings. Now he was no more.
Sethji was cremated the same evening.
The end of his simple life ,vas even simpler.
His funeral was paid for by us, his poor co~
tenants. We could hire no pundit for the
few rupees we collected and the Sethji's soul
had to go unguided and unsung to the world
beyond. With him we burnt his few worldly
belongings too, as there was nobody to claim
them.

a lottery ticket. He wrote the ticket number
on the wall So that he would not forget it.
I rushed madly out of the house to the local
news-stall. The paperwala was a bit amazed
when I demanded a newspaper dated a
month back. It took him quite some time
to get the newspaper from the old heap at
the back. I snatched the newspaper from
his hand and with shaking hands turned the
pages. There, the results of the last draw of
the local lottery was before me. I saw the
number of the lucky winner (was he?) of
the first prize. The ticket number was

UF 76S4ZI.
I laughed mirthlessly. The Sethji had
indeed died of heart-attack. You see, he was
a lakhpathi when he died. Too bad that he
could not beal' the happiness of becoming
one!

-A.

SANKARAN.

