CAMPASTIMES

14

[September 1969

Oh LJear, Veer!
_ _ _ _ _ _ by - - - - - -

C.

GOURISANKAR

The other day I fulfilled a long cherished
desire of mine"":""to photograph the deer in the
campus of the Indian Institute of Technology,
Madras. In spite of my long association
with the Institute I could not do the photography earlier for want of proper equipme!lt.
A few days ago I came acroSs a camera wlth
11 lens of the correct focal length,
and I
said to myself, 'Here is my chance '.

I prepared for the assignment with aU
thoroughness. True, I might not have done
,any wild life photography in the past, but my
close association with a doyen in the field
proved useful. 'Suitable camouflage is allimportant' was lesson number one. I
acquired a green cloth hat with a broad brim
and a few yards of netting dyed in the same
colour. A pair of mud-coloured trousers
(my wife complains that I have none else 1)
and an olive-green bush-shirt completed the
ensemble. 'Patience in ample measure •
was lesson number two. This I do claim to
have, though • only in photography' adds my
little daughter. And lesson number three
was, • Be fully prepared for failures and
frustration'. This, of course, sounds quite
elementary. After all you do not expect the
deer to come to the right place at the right
time, look this way or that, and say' Cheese'.
But what I was completely unprepared for,
was frustration, not from the dear deer, but
from an entirely different quarter.
1 reached the campus, locked my scooter
under the shade of a tree and took up position
a hundred yards away near a road-bend
known to be frequented by deer. I put on
my hat, covered myself up with the green
netting and, to top it all, stuck into it lengths
of creepers with fresh leaves. I would have
been the envy of my friend, the wild life manl
I was aU set and was looking forward to the
deer. A herd appeared soon enough-not of
deer, but of men. They were engrossed in some conversation, but the moment
they spotted me, they stopped, stared hard
and started discussing me in whispers. And
one significant gesture of one of them and
the unanimous nod of the others made me
realise what they thought of me. I imme~
diately decided to get rid of my camouflage.
After atl, without it; the deer would take me
for a man, but with it, it was worse-man
had mistaken me for a • . • •• 1

Shortly a herd appeared in the bushes on
the other side of the road and I waS hoping
they would soon come out in the open. But
this was not to be. A man on a cycle
shouted at me, • Sir, is it your scooter under
that tree? '. Presumably a member of the
security staff. The deer were disturbed.
• Patience', I said to myself. Some time
passed and the deer were again calm and
grazing peacefully. My hopes began to rise.
Just then a boy who was passing along, saw
me and my camera, looked round at the deer
and observed,' So, you are photographing
the deer I' Obvious, no doubt, but you
should have seen the Sherlock Holmes look
on his face I I knew I was dished for another
half-hour.
Things were returni~lg to normal when a
passing car suddenly stopped and reversed to
where I was. The deer pricked up their ears
and retreated. 'Where could I meet Prof.
Kapur?', one of the men in the car asked. In
my anxiety to get rid of him quickly I replied,
'In the HSB '. He was none the wiser, for
he was a stranger to the campus. I had to
explain to him in detail the two-mile stretch,
the Gajendra Circle, the turn to the left etc.
Another hour of peace was disturbed by a man
in uniform and hob~naiIed boots. First he
threw out a challenge to a wood-cutter a
furlong away. But on seeing me he decided I was a more urgent problem. He approached me briskly with his 'crunch, crunch '
steps and asked me who I was. 'So and so "
I replied. 'From where?', was his next
query. 'From such and such a place', was
my answer. Irritated at my curt replies, he
puffed up a bit and raising his voice asked,
, Have you got the permission of the Security
Officer to take photographs in the campus?'.
I casually took out a visiting card and handing
it over to him said, • Please give this to

By now I had decided to see it through to
the end. The sun was high up and it being the
lunch hour, I was hoping. for peace and quiet
at least now. The deer had also become
used to my presence. At last I was to get the
pictures I had been waiting for, those four
hours. The herd was almost at the kerb of
road and the leader was looking this way
and that, as though to make sure that all
was clear. A lone screeching cycle showed
up, which in itself, I was gratified to note,
did not bother the deer. But just as the
cycle was passing between me and the deer

Mr. Venkatraman '. The very mention of
the name had its magical effect. It is always
amusing to see authority deflate! He
proceeded to tackle the woodcutter.
I sat through another thirty minutes hoping
for the best. I kept the camera trained all
the deer for I expected them to come out of
cover any moment. I heard the noise of a
car coming out of the campus and prayed
that it should pass quickly. But it slowed
down-out popped a face and with a grateful
grin said, 'Thank you'. Yes, it was that
friend of Prof. Kapur. I cursed courtesy.

I was startled by a loud! report. One of the
tyres of the cycle had burst. I just had a
glimpse of the deer fleeing-their hindquarters disappearing gracefully into the thick
growth beyond.
With a big sigh and a • dear deer', I
started packing up. But wait, the exposure
counter on my camera 'indicated twentypictures which I had managed to take in spite
of man not leaving me in peace with the wild
animals. Wild life photogaphy, according to
my friend, is very rewarding. I do hope sol am just going to process my roll.

