September 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

J5

DEAR
DIARY •••
*.

(Excerpts from the diary of an engineer-tobe, in times of spectacular scientific and
technological achievement.)
Monday: - - ! - - !
I I Today's
Semi-conductors periodical was an absolute
washout. .In the fifth problem I got 72.9
Volts, just imagine 72.9 Volts. All the others
(including of course Pinky and T. S.) got
72.5 Volts. Oh gild, what is happening to me
these days? •I'l! lose .five, ~o ten, no twenty
marks for thIs sick, sIck mistake. And this
Semi-conductors lecturer is an absolute moron.
He just hates the sight of me. I know it, he
hates me. Last Sunday when I met him at
the Adyar bus-stop, I asked him how to
solve one really tough problem and he
said very loudly, • I don't think this is the
best place to dISCUSS Semi-conductor electronics'. I know the cheap moron will cut more
than twenty marks. Oh, no 1 I am going to
ge~ an A~ aI!- A I I am desperate. Any way
thIS periodIcal must be dropped from my
best two. I must make up in the other two
or I am .sunk. I don't think I'll get any
sl~ep tODlght. If I go on goofing like this I
will not only lose my scholarship, but I will
definitely fail this year, semester I mean.
I must make up. I shall start preparing now !
Bony told me today that 1 am not fit to
be in the rat-race although I am a rat. I
told him not to act smart.
Tuesday: Why is my hair falling off so
fast?
Wednesday: Got our Machines grades
today. Pinky got S-good and T.S. got
S-excellent. And poor little merit-scholar
me? A poor little S, just S. I am desperate.
The tragedy is that neither Pinky nor T. S. are
really intelligent. But then true intelligence
(as I have found) gets no credit here. Pinky
just mugs, day in and day out. This morning
for instance, I saw his room light come on
at three o'clock. And he never gets· anything
less than S-g')od. T. S. on the other hand
gets all his S's by buttering, pure soaping.
• Good ~orning, sir,' • Good afternoon, sir"
all the time. He even smiles at the lecturers !
The sucker. He has no shame. And he has
too much luck, fab luck. Point. That's the
trouble with me~I have abs no luck.

*

Alt~~ug~ a
t;urn~o

Well, Well! A new gown every Convocation!!
Bony told me today that I am a Perpetual
Mugging Machine (PMM-I). I told him not
to act smart.
Thursday: There is a movie today at the
Open Air Theatre. In the middle of the week,
that too. They show too many movies as it
is. I don't like movies. Anyway the films
they show here are not so good. And the
cement seats are too damn hard. Also the
OAT is too stuffy. Anyway I don't like
movies. Today they're showing' ApollO-II '.
Propaganda stuff, that's all. Who'll see it?
Any minute now Ramesh will come to call
me on his way to OAT. I feel very tired.
I'll put off my light and lie down for a while.
Friday: Drank toc) much coffee last night.
But you can't stay up till five on just 1lotlzing.
Have to change my specs once again. Had
been planning to see the doctor since the
beginning of this semester. But no time at
aU. Finally managed to get away last
Saturday. Wasted one whole afternoon.
The doctor said I read too much. I said of
course not. My eyes are bad because I see
too many movies. Got the new prescription
and hunted all over the city. Not a single
shop has -19 lenses.
Networks periodical tomorrciw. Got to
continue studying. Its only two-thirty now'.
lf I go on relaxing and taking it easy like
this its definitely goodbye to the scholarship.
Bony told me today that I have as much
brains as a retarded ant. I told him not to
act smart.

bit of a moron,

~i.s

A beautiful

ott

.p~oton:

ll·<!:.V.

Saturday: My neighbour is too damn
noisy. He keeps singing and laughing all
the time. Yesterday he was playing his
guitar during lUllch break. I simply ccmldn't
study a word.
The annual sports was held in the afternoon
today. So for once I was able to study
without disturbance. In the evening, .after
going to the stadium for tea, decided to relax.
for one whole hour. Went to the library.
reference secti6n. Found a great book there.
Too sexy.
Its called 'Some theoretical
intricacies of ultra-high~frequency wave
propogation techniques'. Maha book . . Only
hope those mugpots Pinky alld T.S. won't,
get hold of it.~ Anyway I've put it behind,
two big books! When I returned from the
library my neighbour was shouting louder
than usual. Just because our hostel won
some silly cup-Shotter or Shoder or something. I forget the name.
SU1Zday: Monday and Tuesday are
holidays. Last night while I was preparing
for Wednesday's periodical, a terrible fact
struck me. The jitJal exam is o1z1y two mOlzths
away. I am desperate. What shall I do?·
I haven't finished revising even once. I bet
Pinky has already crammed every single
word. The mugpot. I've been taking it too.
easy. Kicking it up, relaxing too much. I
can't afford to waste any more time. I will
stop writing in this diary from today.
Bony told me today ••.• oh b-- to,
Bony I

-So R.

NAIR.

