September 1969]

CAMPASTIMES

17

The Fatal Lift
HE ran ali

the way to the bus-stop, his heart pounding under
the unaccustomed exertion. As Jim Adams rounded the corner,
he saw that he was too late. In all the five years of his work as a
machinist in the automobile factory he had always arrived on time.
Jim could never afford to forget that as a black man his first
mistake could turn out to be his last as well.
His only hope would be to hitch a ride from a passing motorist.
Several cars whipped by, the drivers hardly giving him a second
glance. f Then to his surprise a chic looking sports model pulled
up beside him. His eyes popped when he perceived a young
woman behind the wheel. She gave him a cheery smile and said,
, Hop in if you want a lift.' As he stepped hesitantly into the car
his nostrils caught a whiff of alcohol. Something warned him to
back ·out and not get involved. But it was vital that he should
not provide his foreman with a chance of finding fault with him.
She giggled as she caught sight of his worried looking face. She
asked him, • You in a hurry, Mister l' Jim wondered whether it
waS wise to encourage her and just shrugged his shoulders. She
pulled away from the kerb with a jerk and raced down the road.
She turned and studying his face said, 'My name's Aileen McCoy.
What's yours?' His voice appeared unnaturally loud as he said,
• Jim, Jim Adams. I work in the Automobile Factory, fourteen
miles down the road.'
'Welt Jim, we've got a long ride ahead of us. Pass me that
bottle in the cabinet in front of you '.
Jim obediently gave her the half~finished bottle of brandy. As
she took the bottle to her lips her eyes went off the road and the
CRr swung towards the ditch that ran along the edge. Jim grabbed
the wheel and twisted it with all his strength. Suddenly the
world started spinning and seemed to be exploding in a thousand
places all around him.
When his eyes opened he found himself in bed, in a clean, airy
room. which had the unmistakable look of a hospital ward. In a
flood the memory of the accident entered his brain. His thoughts
turned to the girl and he hoped that she had been more fortunate
than he. Jim found that he was unable to lift his legs and moving
his neck sent flash.es of pain down his back. He heard the door
9pen and through the corner of his eyes he was able to see a doctor
entering the room, closely followed by a police officer. The sight
of the latter threw Jim into a panic and all the bottled up stories
of his childhood came to the surface. He heard his mother's
words of caution, • Listen, mah son. The fuzz are always agin' us,
poor black people). . The doctor felt his pulse and checked his
chest. He then nodded to the officer, who came forward with a
note pad in his hand. He questioned Jim in a harsh voice, taking
down details of his name, address, occupation etc.

Jim's voice quavered as he asked, 'How is the young lady?
1 hope she's not ·badly hm-t.· .
The officer replied in a co)d, clear voice, • Miss i\·~,,"Coy was
killed on the spot. Her father is pressing charges against you for
causing her death.'
Jim was struck speechless by the glaring injustice of these words.
Meanwhile the officer kept talking. Jim gathered that he had been
found in the front seat of the car with his arms around the girl.
Also his shirt was soaked in alcohol. Mr McCoy's charges were
that Jim had tried to molest his daughter, under the jnfluencc of
dtink, and in so doing h.ad caused the accident, resulting in her
death.
Jim's brain was in a turmoil of indignation and fear. He
recalled stories of negroes being lynched for getting involved with
white women. He knew that no amount of protesting would
overcome the strong tide of the father's grief and the white man's
hatred. The policeman had left and Jim looked atound the
l'oom feeling trapped like a cornered beast with only a few moments
to Hve. He could picture in his mind's eye the agonising weeks
of trial by a prejudiced jurYi the inevitable conviction and the shame~
ful end. Jim realised that there was only one possible soiution to
his misery. Summoning aU th~ strength at his disposal he rolled
off the cot. &l he fell, his body screamed with intolerable pain
arid anguish for the last time.

-M. P.

ASurvey of Friendship
~
..'""
(
,-.~

landmarks of IndO.German Cpoperat1on

~
00
da

»

:204 CaDiial & Technlcal

An'$I~nCe PrOJ"Clt

350 doint Ventures and Coflaboral,on.
7 Malt Mueller Shavans/CulluralCentrell

3 TechnicalTraininr I"stitule,

' . 21 Lecturers at Indian Unlyerslties

t
..

8
S

QJ;iI

92 Volun'""rs (German Volunleet ServIce)
3 Agrrcullural F>rojecla

TeleviSion Siudio New Delh'
German Academic Exchance Service (O.A AD)
Indian [nstilule of Technolocy Madras

India and Germany-Partners in Progress

SARANATH.

