18

CAMPASTIMES

Sportfolio

Mool!lstruck-(contd. from p. 16)

It is more than a month since the semester
started, and during this month, sports activi~
ties have been going on full steam ahead.
It is very encouraging to notice that so
many turn up for practice daily, especially

from among the freshers and the second year
chaps. The periodicals need not dampen
their enthusjasm

for

sports

[September 1969

activities.

Watching the Hockey and Football teams at
practice, one finds that they are as good as
they were last year. The vacancies caused
by the graduating seniors have been filled
by deserving new players. The fact that we
have had no defeats in football and hockey
.50 far, proves this point.
The inter~oUegiate tournaments have
started and our teams have been doing well.
.The inter-hostel matches have also started.
We hope to see keen competition for the
Schroeter Cup.
Badminton:

EDWIN AGAIN I
Ed.win Srinivasan, Madras State Badminton

'h .. __ ~ ... ""'h.~n he clinched
the Madras Students' Badminton Championship title. Four IITians, Edwin. Vaidyanathan.
Capt. Sheopuri and Capt. Singha took part.
Edwin reached the finals beating Capt.
Sheopuri in the semi~finals. In the finals
Edwin brushed aside Ranga Prasad's
chalJenge, beating him in straight sets. Later
he partnered Capt. Sheopuri to ,vin the
doubles title. Our prospects at the Inter·IIT
Meet Jook bright.
Football :
In the inter-collegiate tournament, IIT has
been doing well. lIT beat Vivekananda 1-0
and Kandaswami Naidu College, 6-0 at the
home grounds. Star of the match against
Kandl1Swami Naidu College, was Dhruv Pant
who netted thrice. Fresher David Roby
netted once.
Hockey:
In the inter-collegiate tournament llT beat
Kandaswami 3"0. lIT then beat Kilpauk
Medical 2-0. 'Gus' was in good form and
scored a goal in each match. We were held
to a goalless draw by MMe.

Cricket:
The Institute team has been dOing well in
the inter-collegiate matches. The team has
been strengthened by the inclusion of fresher
Gaurishankar. He has played well in most
·of the matches. Gaurishankar and Varadarajan
:are a good opening pair for the Institute.
Vasan, Satya nathan and Gaurishankar have
·been bowling very well. At the Jain College
tournament, IIT • B ' lost to Vivekananda and
our t A' team lost in the second round to
Law College by two runs. In the first round
we had beaten Pachayappa • B' by nine
wickets.
In the Inter-Collegiate League lIT beat L~w
by seven wickets and then Arts College by
the same margin. Against Law, Gaurishankar
hit 54 runs. IIT beat Veterinary by 37 runs
(Gauriahankar 57). At the home ground we
beat C.P.T. by ten wickets. The scores:
C.P.T.90, lIT 96 for no loss. (Gaurishankar
50 n.o. Varadarajan 36 n.o.)

Tennis:
Ramanathan Krishnan has urged the
youngsters of this country to take up the
game with zeal. Many IITians have respon-

He kept ·.turning in his bed trying to re~
member a famous line of a celebrated poet:
• ... 0 Woman, in times of ease, •••• hard
to please ••• .' He tried to remember the
rest of it. He kept tossing and turning like
a flimsy bark on the turbulent seas, but the
evasive wore. kept slipping his memory like an
oiled eel. !At last he gave it up.
, Coy and uncertain !' he shouted with a
sense of triumph t even as the alarm he had
set joined him in chorus. It might have been
due to the jubilation of bringing to memory
an eva.sive word, but as he thought more about
it, a queer expression began to spread over
his face. He had, in short, hit upon a solu·
tion. He thought that his motives, though
very obvious, were misunderstood by her, and
hence, he argued with penetrating logic, the
best method to adopt would be the direct
approach. He could imagine himself walking up to her boldly with a rose in his
buttonhole and saying, • Just a minute MademoiselIe, may I be allowed to say something?
I love YOIl !' He could imagine the closed
eyes of the heroine, the alluring smile on her
lips and .•.. well, let's leave it at that. It
was with a springy stride and a smile on his

ded to his call. With the arrival of balls
and the courts being prepared, one sees mallY

rather Wee Lochinvar.

new hands at the game. The players have
been classified to play in different courts.
Ram Kumar Menon represented the State
and took part in the Ceylon National
Championships. We fared satisfactorily at
the Jain College tournament. In the InterCollegiate League we lost to MMe. But we
should do better with R. K. Menon back from
Ceylon. Lionel Paul, twice the winner of the
Bertram Tournament, is back in the Institute.
Basketball :
The Institute team has been weakened by
the passing out of many of the players.
However, the team did wdl to beat CpT
84-44' Keshavan scored 44 points and
Palanikumau8. We lost to MMCandLoyola.
Volleyball:
In the Inter-Collegiate League we won
our match againat CLRX and lost to Loyola and

MMe.

Rowing:
The Madras·Colombo Challenge Fours was
won by Madras. Representing Madras were
two lITians--Ebby Sargunar (class of '69)
and M. Sanyal.
. The blter-Collegiate Regatta is being reintroduced this year after having been deleted
last year. lIT Were the holders for the first
five years of its existence t then AC Tech
took over for one year. The IlT crew this
year will consist of Baau John, Ray" Sanyal,
and some new recruits.
Table Tennis:
Prem Watsa won the non-medallists singles
title in the Open T.T. Tournament conduc·
ted by YMCA. The Institute pair of Prem
Watsa and Rakesh Gothi were runners-up in
the doubles event. The Institute team has
been strengthened by the inclusion of Iftequar
Ahmed, the Mysore Junior 1'.1'. Champion.
We should do well at the Inter-IIT Meet.
Skating:
The Institute Skating team represented
Tamil Nadu at the All-India Skating Competition held in Simla between the 26th and
29th of June. We were runners-up in the
hockey event and lost to Patiala in the finals.
Three players from the Institute, M ..S. Syalee,
Raman Mullick t and S. Umapathy were
amongst the five that constituted the rest-ofIndia team which played the winners. IITians
are showing keen interest in skating, and the
Skating Club has over a hundred members
now. A trophy has been instituted for the
hostel adjudged the best in skating. The
Club is trying to enrol a few members from
the Ladies' Hostel. That would certainty
draw more members from the men's hostels.
With the encouraging performances noted
in the different games we could hope to do
better in the Inter-lIT Meet which will be
held at Kharagpur sometime in December.
Perhaps we'll outgrow our traditional last
place in the Meet.
-Campastimes

lips that he set out for adventure feeling
'

Chandran was whistling a CtlY1latic tune as
he walked to his destination. He was a great
connoisseur of Camatic music. When he
reached his destination, he tried to look
casual and indifferent. As soon as he sighted
her, he shook visibly like a coke bottle shaken
by an expert shaker. She just raised a quizzical eyebrow as though asking him, • Why
have you come here?' Chandran's spirits
sank. to the nadir and he stooped down to pick
them up. He actually bent down to release
something from under his right foot. He
thought it was a stone, but later on closer
investigation. found it to be his left foot. When
he rose after setting it right, he found something missing. Once again, he stood with his
mouth gaping wide open and eyes staring
after the fleeing form, now only a dot against
the hostel.

""

..

So now you know the -,"cason for the scowl

and the secret sorrow that Jay buried in the
heart of our hero; though the sorrow was
secret no longer thanks to the last bench (his
usual c1assrc.om habitat) covered with the
name of Geetha written in all possible manners in conjunction with our hero's.
Chandran tried to smile in such a way as to
express his unexpressed sorrows, but what
actually resulted was a grin which no Orang
Utan in the deep forests of Borneo would
have produced. He tried to move his leg,
thought better of it, and sighed resignedly at
his legs in casts. In short the fall had torn
asunder what God had joined together,
namely the thingummyjig bones connecting
the lower and upper portions of his legs. He
closed his eyes meditatively, opened them
shortly afterwards, and like Abu ben Adhem,
saw an angel, or what at first glance passed
for an angel. The angel had come to take a
preventive cure for cold. The angel, other~
wise Geetha, looked at Chandran and gave
an inaudible gasp. For indeed Chandran was
her loved one. She had a father who looked
like lln overgrown pig, and she loved him
dearly. Thus she had an inclination towards
fat men. T~ere was a negative impetus, too,
for she had ~ brother who wore the lean-andhungry look and not a few were the unplea
sant moments he had caused. Her behaviour
with Chandran during their previous encounters had of course been due to a woman's
natural coyness. Her crossed eyes gleaming
and looking more crossed, she advanced
towards Chandran. At the first sight of
her, his heart bounced up only to knock
against his lower jaw and fall back to the right
place. This was not because he was thrilled.
Only. he now noticed her crossed eyes and
that unsightly pimple on her nose. Then it
dawned upon him. He had actually 11(1'Oer seeJ~
her at close quarters! • Hullo Chandran I' she
cried. The sound was like of a female rhino~
ceros calIin~ to its young. It jarred on
Chandran's sensitive musical ear. Then she
smiled. Ch~ndran fainted.
Poor chap, he's still at the hospital. They
are treating him for heart trouble.
w

-D.

KALYANA"RAMAN.

