September 1969J

CAMPASTIMES,

THE BUREAUCRATS
I

I had finished my calculations on Apollo 10 and II. Naturally enough I wanted to send
it to NASA before they launched them (i.e. about May-June). But the work was quite bulky
and the heavy postage was beyond my pocket. Also I had lots of other material to send to
various authorities. Money for the postage became a problem. So I approached the Permanent Vice-Chancel1or of my University for financial aid. I thought I had a deserving cause.
But this is what happened.

I explained the story to the P.V.C.
P. V.C. : Why do you have to send it abroad?

The patriotic feeling is completely lacking in this post-independence generation.
You can very well give 'it to some of our
excellent departments .here.
Me : Sir, without prejudice to my patriotic
feelings, may I humbly state that no-one
in this University is interested in what I
am doing. Besides, if I were to give it
to some of the departments here, I know
from experience that I may never get
it back and no-one will know what
happened to it.
P. V.C. : All right, how much do you want?
Me: I think Rs. 250 will satisfy all my
present requirements, Sir. After all, they
give . every post-graduate student a
monthly stipend of Rs. z50, so this
should not be difficult.
P. V.C.: Rs. 250! My God I Ayo Rama!
Aray Ram! Rs. 250 I 0 Bhagwm, I We
could print 20,000 forms with it ! No,
certainly not I Besides, I don't think
there is any provision for it in the rLLles.
Me: But Sir, it is for a reasonable cause.
Any credit that might come to me is a
credit to the U niv~rsity also. . I am not
going to squander the money.
P. V.C.: (Flaring up) It is not for you to say
whetller it is reasonable or not. That
depends on the rules. And how dare
you come into my office like this and talk
such nonsense? Don't you know the
correct procedure? You must approach
me.through the proper channel,;. YOll
have committed an unpardonable crime
by walking in like this and you deserve
to be .disqualified from all aid. However
(suddenly smiling) I am world famous
for my beneV'olence and sympathy for
students; and I will give you one more
chance to approach me through the
proper channels.
Me: (Timidly) Thank you, Sir. And-and
may I know what is the proper channel?
P.V.C. : (Furiously) Now 1 warn you again,
you must ask that question through the
proper channels. I myself do not know
what they are. Probably if you contact
Me Raman Redtape of the Administrative
Office; you might get the information.
Go in peace.

It took me two days to locate the clerk.
After giving me a tough look, he directed .me
to another who in turn directed me to a
third. After this process was repeated factorial five times in factorial four days, I found
myself face to face with an old, sinister
looking character called O.
0: (In his most haughty tone): Well ?
I explain the purpose of my visit.
What is NASA? Is it a factory where
you want to do your summer practical
training?
Me: It stands for National Aeronautics and
Space Administration.
(With a show of knowledge): Oh that
thing in Bangalore!
Me: You are confusing it with the National
Aeronautical Lab. The thing I am talking of is in the U.S.A.
0: U.S.A. I Are you mad? You are in India,
not in the U.S.A. !
Me: (Realizing that it won't get into his
skull): OK, let us forget about the NASA
and all that. Say I want some financial aid
from the University. What is the correct
procedure?
o ; (Happy at finally understanding the matter) : You mean you want aid from the
Student's Aid Fund !
Me: From that or anything else, so long as
I get something.
o : I know only Studenes Aid Fund. I don't
know about anything else.
Me: Student's Aid Fund, then I
0: Alright. You must fill up these forms.
In particular, you must fill the following
in detail: native place, mother-tongue,

o:

o:

property, caste; sub-caste, sub-sub-caste,
anthropological origin, blood group,
anatomical details ..•.•.. (about 3,00
details I) At least ten copies must be
sent to the P.V.C. so that at least one
may reach him before the end of the
year; six copies each to all heads of departments with five spare copies each;
two copies to .the N.C.C.; and copies to
the workshops; labs and all hostel
notice-boards.
iWe: But that will mean filling up more than
zoo forms, and that too, with 300 details
each I
0: (Mercilessly): But that is the only correct procedure, and the easiest one.
Take t~e forms, fin them up, and hand
them over to me.
Somehow all the forms are filled up and
handed over to O.
0: Come after two weeks. I will then let
you know the results.

After two weeks
I go to meet 0 and remind him.
0: (Recoiling): Who are you? I am sure
we've never met before!
M8.: But you made me fill up 200 forms just
two weeks ago. How can you forget?
o : What forms are you talking about? Don't
talk nonsense. Please go away and don't
disturb me.
I can stand it no longer and I weep.
o : (Shouting): It is all because you did not
approach me through the proper channel.
]life: For goodness' sake, what is this proper
channel that everyone is talking about?
It is as difficult to enter through .the
proper channel as it is for an interplane.
tary rocket to get into the narrow atmospheric re-entry corridor for a safe landing!
Would you please specify the accuracy
required in the angle and the velocity of
approach in order to enter the proper'
channel safely?
I am in dread lest should he specify as high
an accuracy of the velocity and angle of
approach as required for a soft-landing on the
planet Jupiter. According to my calculations,
this is about sixty times more than that in~
volved in William Tell's archery feat!
No angle, no velocity. What I mean is,
you must approach me through the
P.V.C.

o:

•

•

*

Later that week I heard that a full division
bench of the University High Court presided
over by the P.V.C.; together with aU. the
members of the faculty met in solemn conclave
and rejected my petition. The Consensus of
opinion in the learned Assembly was that the
great and universal law of bureaucracy, viz. !
No pro'/}isi01~, 1Z0 pnJCedelJt, must not be
violated. Their learned lordships came to
this dramatic conclusion after diligently burn·
ing the midnight oil for three continuous
nights, poring over 1000 volumes of rules and
regulations right from the first volume brought
out in 1859 A.D. Not finding the rule appropriate to my petition and seeing no mention
of NASA anywhere in the 1000 sacred bibles
at their disposal, they came to the above
conclusion after much intellectual exercise.

*

EPILOGUE

19
modern. bureaucracy, there have·been numerous cases of apparent violation of the great
law sta,ed above, but these have been satisfactorily accounted .for by the 'elementary
particles ' of modern bureaucracy such as :
bribes, influence, wire-pulling, status etc.
(iii) Further, I was warned by the University High Priest that any questioning of the
great and sacred decision of the holy Assembly
was bound to attract the wrath of the gods,
who, afJ:er striking me with a sore disease in
all my joints, would (with apologies to Lord
Maaculay) transport me to Hades and the
gates iJf terror and confusion, to burn thereafter in the eternal fires of .Hell.
What could I do against such threats?

,.

*

*

*

,.

*

*'

,.

..

(For the following piece, apologies are due
to Charles Dickens.)
The above strategy having flopped miser·
ably, I decided to make the learned Assembly
apparently violate ~h,e great law by invoking
the help of the elementary particles mentioned in epilogue (ii). It worked! I got
Rs. 2-45 duly sanctioned.
Please Sir, may I have Rs. 5 more,' I
·asked the P.V.C. He looked stunned, and
almost fainting, clung to his desk for support.
Recovering, he aimed the ashtray and paperweight at my head. I could have saved the
University Rs. 245, but unfortunately I
ducked. 'More!', he screamed. I This. is
sacrilegious! Unparalleled impertinencel'.
He rushed out of the office.
I

The University Supreme Command was
sitting in solemn session with the University
President in the high chair when the P.V.C.
rushed in pale and trembling, choking with
emotion and screaming in indignation.
• What is the matter, P.V.C.?' the president
screamed:' Has the University been bombed?'
• Beg your pardon, Mr. President Sir, but
that boy has asked for Rs. 5 more,' the
P.V.C. screamed with indignation.
Horror and indignation were depicted on
every countenance-several members fainted.
, What? ' roared the president, • You mean
he ,,,as impudent enough to demand more
than what the sacred Assembly sanctioned?
This is unbelievable.'
• But '.he did sir,' the P. V. C. again
screamed.
, I know that boy will be hanged fQr
this, he certainly will be,' said the professor
with the psychedelic coat.
. 'Besides, he was saying the other day that
the plane~ Jupiter is contracting at the rate
of one thirty thousandth of ·an inch per year"
the professor quipped in.
'
• Another heresy,' screamed the President,
'Fancy insulting a beneficial planet in my
horoscope like that I This will have an adverse effect. Oh, no I' (He fainted)
Half an hour later, when I picked up
enough courage to enter the hall, I found
the P .V.C. screaming voicelessly, ' Five rupees
more ! I' Everyone else seemed to be in
a dead faint. I couldn't have got out of
there fast enough I
SHIVRAM •.

*

(i) It seems that the great law of
bureaucracy enunciated above in four golden
words (No pro'Visioll, flO precedel~t) is as inviolable as the law of conservation of mass·
energy in physics. Any attempt at violation
is thus bound to have the most disastrous
results.
(ii) Of Course, in modern physics, there
have been cases of apparent violation of the
law of conservation of mass-energy, but these
violations were satisfactorily accounted for by
postulating new elementary particles like the
neutrino and the gravitation. Similarly, in

Q)

\

\

\

I I

~

~

/

\

I
Ii)
L~

____________________________

~

