CAMPASTIMES
Mahatma Gandhi
(Continuedfrom page I)
Mahatma Gandhi enunciated. The idea of
an Ashram is not new. But Ashrams as Life
Centres to train national and constructive
workers with speciﬁc ends in view was
systematically worked out by the Mahatma.
The Sarvodaya and Bhoodan—Sramdan movements, seeking to serve the least among
human beings, are more or less off-shoots
of the philosophy of Gandhiji in his comprehensive attempt to solve the complex
problems of life from the point of view of
thOSe who are dispossessed. His overwhelm—
ing sense of humanity cut across all national,
racial, and religious barriers. If he strove
for the independence of the Indian masses,
it was not because that these were Indian
and that independence was an end in
itself; it was because they were part of
humanity, and it militated his conscience to
see a part of humanity in economic and
political bondage. The moral force be
generated perplexed and paralysed for a
time the mightiest empire that the world
has ever known.
Mahatma Gandhi’s greatest contribution
to India was his magnetic personality and
his unfailing touch of humanity that bound
widely different people together. Under
his ﬂag, Hindus and Muslims, Harijans and
Brahmins,

Sikhs

and

Christians,

[October |5th, I962

‘PRISONER FOR EVER’

ALONG THE
MOUNTAIN ROAD
As I stood on the mountain road overlook—
ing the river ﬂowing in the deep valley below
me, I wondered and yet I failed to under—
stand this mysterious nature. From where I
stood, I could see a raging river in its
unabated fury come rushing from the serene
heights with a tremendous source of power
and in its wake, it seemed to bring a new
spirit of adventure into that mountainous
terrain. And as the rising waves struck the
massive specimens of ancient rock, little
droplets of water splashed hither and thither,
The gurgling of this lively river seemed to
echo from the hills in the far away distance.
And as it wound its way along the valley,
it sparkled and glittered in the early dawn.
The morning mist was slowly rising above me
like a white veil disclosing in the horizon in
beautiful landscape . . . . . . .The cold and cruel
wind was lashing against me and it seemed
as if I would be thrown down the slopes—+50
great was its power. It was then that I
realised the abyss to which I might have
gone.
It was a deep precipiceafull of
irregular features and creating a sense of fear
to the observer. It was dreadful to fall from
there into that chasm of unimaginable
dangers.

workers

and mill-owners, peasants and landlords,
North Indians and South Indians sank
their differences and united together to
make a common cause. Differences in
language faded away in his presence. In
his presence, a Nehru and a Rajagopala—
Chari, a Kripalani and a Jaya Prakash Narain,
a Gaﬁoor Khan and a George Ioseph felt
completely at home. Men and women, the
poor and the rich, the high and the low,
the young and the old, a Panjabee and a
Bengalee instantaneously felt the power of
his personality which knit them and held
them together. He was the greatest single
nationalising and integrating force in the
nation. Under the leadership of Mahatma
Gandhi, India, for the first time, appeared
like a nation.
.
The glories of this world will surely pass
away. Civilizations with all their pomp and
show may Wither away. Empires and kingdoms may change hands. Power which
allows and destroys often chooses new
devotees. The invincible capitals of the world
may be crumbled into dust and forgotten.
But History and Culture will enshrine this, one
of the noblest sons of man, in their pages for
ages. Human existence loses all its meaning
and signiﬁcance withouta Gandhi and Lincoln.

And as Istood there thus contemplating,
my eyes scanned the distance and there along
the road, I perceived an old man tottering
along. His face had a venerable look. His
back was bent with age and even his staffseemed to bend under his weight. His steps were
slow and staggered and after every few steps,
he stood and panted for breath. He turned
back and smiled. Perhaps he was rejoicing at
the distance he had covered but once again he
looked towards the vanishing road in the
horizon and gathering hopeful courage, he
moved along. His progress was slow but steady.
But as ill luck would have it, his weak and

inﬁrm step confronted a boulder. He tripped
and fell. Soon he was rolling down the
enviable precipice. Nothing more was left of
him except his faithful staff which had served
him for along time. The river rolled on as
if nothing had happened.

but

some intuition prevented him from following
the course of his plaything.
Thus, many a traveller passed along the
dangerous route. And as I stood there
musing, I felt that the life of man itself
was one arduous struggle to reach the Pinnacle
of Perfection and along the path to that goal
were imminent dangers unthought of by him
before. Each one has to ﬁght the battle of
life in his own way and capacity. Some may
be fortunate; some may be foolish; but every
one has to reach the inn of happiness by
one’s own sheer spirit of adventure and belief
that they can do what is necessary and just.
The aged may look upon their past with
happiness and leave behind them a legacy of
their rich experience and it’s for the young
men to ﬁght their way to the goal with the
aided experience of the past.
KRIPANARAYANAN

I know, succeeded also.

I too took the plunge—the vow to observe
brahmacharya for life. . . . .
MAHATMA GANDHI

bachelor.

He was convinced that if a book ‘ Excuses
for husbands ’ was written, it shall be read by

every wife in the world.
It was just that he wasn’t prepared to take
the risk of marriage. Life was great, as
great as it could be. He did what he felt
like and nobody asked any questions.
Life had gone on smoothly, till the day he
found out that he was in love with Kamini.
One day in the earlier parts of their
acquaintance he had rang her up and she said
she couldn’t come out with him that evening. He had felt sad, and since that was

It was sometime later that a child playing
with a ball came along the perilous route.
So absorbed was he in his innocent game
that he moved towards the dangerous slopes
in a careless manner and unfortunately the ball
rolled down over the deep precipice. And as
the child watched the ball go far and far away
from him, his hands reached out for- it,

I pondered over Brahmacharya and its
implications. . . .It was borne in upon me that
I should have more and more occasions for
service of the kind I was rendering, and that
I should ﬁnd myself unequal to my task if I
were engaged in the pleasures of family life.
In a word I could not live both after the
ﬂesh and the spirit. On the present occasion,
for instance, I should not have been able to
throw myself into the fray had my wife
been expecting a baby. Without the obser—
vance of brahmacharya service of the family
would be inconsistent with service of the
community.
. . . . . .So thinking I became somewhat
impatient to take a ﬁnal vow. The prospect
of the vow brought a certain kind of exultation.
Imagination also found free play and opened '
out limitless vistas of service.
. . . . . .On my arrival at Phoenix I eagerly
broached the subject of brahmacharya with
Chaganlal, Maganlal, West and others. They
liked the idea and accepted the necessity of
taking the vow, but they also represented the
difficulties of the task. Some of them set
themselves bravely to obserVe it, and some,

The night was young—the jail clock had just
struck nine. The sleep was miles away from
his eyes. He lay there, thinking, on the hard
ﬂoor, which continuity of use had softened.
He had used the same spot for sleeping
for the last fourteen years ;
And he had slept most of the nights.
But tonight was different in the sense that it
was the last night he was to spend in jail,
Next day he knew freedom would rise with
the sun. He will no longer be a prisoner—
bound by the four walls of his cell.
‘ Maybe life would change a lot.’
He thought. It had to. There is a diﬂ’erdence between liberty and captivity.
Fourteen long years back he had come to the
jail on a charge of double murder. He remembered it all, but had never thought about it.
But tonight he was retrospecting. He was
twenty-ﬁve when his father had died leaving
him in charge of a big, ﬂourishing business.
He was old enough to feel his‘ responsibility and young enough not to take it. But
eventually everything had started working
out alright. After a few set—backs, he had
smoothened out his path. Everything started
going on ﬁne.
Then had started his travels, his enjoyments and his affairs. He liked to work hard
and live fast. The life had gone on for some
years like that. He was having a ‘go’ at
life, but not at the expense of his business.
He had fallen in love many a time, but his love
of freedom and independence, which he
prized above everything else, had kept him a

What cannot be followed out in day-to-day
practice cannot be called religion.
MAHATMA GANDHI

unusual he knew he was in love. Suddenly
he had started wanting to get married. Two
months later they were lovers and would have
got married but for another man who had
entered the picture to complete the vicious
triangle. Kamini’s behaviour had started
showing a marked change and he began feeling the impending disaster to his life. It was
too much for him; not because he had not
lost a girl before, that had been his life, but
because this time he had fallen in love. He
knew that life without Kamini wasn’t worth
anything. He felt that she had no right to
deceive him like that and he wasn’t going
down to take it lying down.
One day he had asked her for the final
answer and she had said ‘ No.’
Next, he had murdered them both. Police

didn’t have to catch up with him. It was
he who caught up with them and surrendered himself half an hour later.
Then had followed the trial. He had sat
sullenly through the endless dream of arguments. The prosecution tried their best to
get him hanged. The ‘ amicus curiae ’ didn’t
try his best to defend him so he had got life
imprisonment.
When the judgement was read he was
dumb-founded because he had never thought
anything wrong with his action. He hadn’t
defended himself because he thought what
he had done was that any man with blood in
his veins would have done.
‘I must have been insane’ thought he, as the
clock struck three in the morning. Then he
had come to jail. In the beginning he was
deﬁant and sulky. But very quickly he had
(Continued on page 5)

