PERSONAL‘ITIES—(3)

Bad JWorning, Sir !
Good morning, Sir !
We use the above expression innumerable
times, but on how many mornings have we
really felt good P When, on one ﬁne morning
we wake up to ﬁnd that a thief has stolen
all the cash and ornaments from the house,

we ring up the police, and when the Inspector answers, we ﬁrst say ‘Good morning, sir !’
When we are expecting to get a ﬁrst div.
and one morning we are informed that we
have failed we run to the Principal’s (or
Director's) ofﬁce, and begin the conversation
with ‘Good morning, sir.’ In fact, seldom do
we have the fortune of enjoying a really good
morning

but,

all

the same,

never do we

deviate from our great tradition of saying
‘Good morning, sir!’

PROF. KRISHNAMURTHY
Professor Krishnamurthy has brought
I.I.T. onto the academic map. People are
sitting up and taking notice that a professor
from I.I.T. has been chosen to represent
India at a World conference. He went to
Tokyo, as we all know, for the World University Service Conference. ‘I did, thwelve
thousand miles, my boy’ he boomed and
added as an afterthought ‘noth ath one
sthretch of course.’
He gave a delightful talk in Narmada
Hostel soon after the Group Discussion,
and was forced to dispense with the services
of the mike.

In

class too, it

would be

farcical to say the usual ‘ can’t hear yOU, sir‘!
His long experience as a lecturer and later
the Principal of Pachaippa’s College has made
him a past master in the art of handling
students. The boys stand in awe of that
imposing personality. One day I heard the
following conversation outside the Humanities
Department.
A boy: Go on in and get your marks,
I say.
Another boy: (peeping in) No fears,
Krishnamurthy is in there I
The Prof. has a unique approach to
teaching English. When he taught us
Pygmalion last year he used to modulate
his tone and pronunciation according to the
situation in the play. It was comical to see
the expressions on the faces of passers—by
when he shouted like Higgins or plaintively
howled like Eliza.

3

CAMPASTIMES

October |.5th. I962]

At least as far as I am concerned, there
can never be a really good morning unless
I have been able to sleep undisturbed till 8
o’clock in the morning. Then only do I feel
revived, refreshed and rejuvenated enough to
say ‘Good morning’ from the bottom of my
heart. Otherwise, I have the feeling of frustration and disappointment and it is a ‘bad
morning’ or had ‘good morning’ (if you
prefer). Well, on the 24 Dec., after a hectic
day’s work, I went to bed at 2 a.m., determined to sleep at least until noon the next
day. My boss had invited me to a Christmas
Dinner the next evening, and I wanted
to go refreshed to the Dinner. I was dreaming
of my boss congratulating me at the Dinner
for having worked hard until 2 a.m. when
suddenly . . . . . . . . . . . .rrr . . . . . . . . . . . .ing !
Ouch ! What was that? I got up with a
start, and half frightened, half bewildered
looked about for the source of that ringing
which had not yet ceased. Then suddenly I
found it. It was the alarm clock, ringing at
4. a.m. Why had I been careless enough not
to notice that the alarm was off before I went to
sleep ? I put it offnow, and lay down again
in bed, angry with myself for having spoilt
the beautiful dream that I was dreaming.
I lay down in bed again, and was about to
sleep, when the young boy upstairs, who is
one of the best early morning mug pots that
I have ever come across, started memorising
his poems. And, of all poems, this one
\Vﬂs :—

‘Early to bed, and early to rise,
Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise’.
As the boy shrieked these words at the top
of his voice, the theme of the poem annoyed
me as much as the disturbance of my precious
sleep. I wanted neither health, nor wealth,
nor wisdom. but only sleep.
After half an hour, the boy stopped. I tried
to snatch sleep as quickly as possible, and
was just about to succeed when my neighbours
decided it was time to play music records.
This was followed by the resumption of his
mugging by the boy upstairs, and the ‘boos’
and ‘peeps’ of the cars which had now begun
to run on the roads.

In fact on one occasion,

he enacted a sequence in a scene which was
so sudden and ferocious, that some workers
in the corridor dropped their equipment and
ﬂed. However this served to make the class
lively and any-drowsy feeling induced by the
previous lecture was rapidly dispelled. (‘can’t
sleep’ one boy complained, ‘too much
noise ’ l).
He was very strict about two things;
1. Never come to class without the textbook.
2. Write down the meaning of a word
explained by him, in the margin of the
page.
Defaulters usually ended up by wishing
they had not come at all. But his ferocity
is usually short-lived, and after a stern reproof, he continues the lecture on a milder
note, as if nothing at all has happened.
As the Head of Department of English he
rules with an iron—hand and never brooks
any violations of his dictums.

Somebody has said, ‘Nothing is impossible
in the world’, but certainly sleep was impossible then. I tried Wordsworth’s method of
counting sheep, but the only thing that happened was that every time I counted ten
sheep, a new record was put on by my
neighbours.

Itossed about in

bed, and was

soon full of frustration. It was indeed a
bad morning ! I decided that if ever I became Mayor of the town or held any position
of power, I would order pin-drop silence in
the town until 6 a.m. every morning—and
anybody violating this law would be executed
on the spot.
Finally, I got up from bed, and closed all
the windows and put on the latches. I knew
Rumour has it that he was so impressed
by his visit to Japan that he is seriously
thinkingI of changing his name to ‘Kisha.
_
mushi ’ .
M.V.R.

ON PARTINGS AND ’
MEETINGS.
Life, it has been said with derision by
some and conﬁrmed by many others consists
of aseries of partings and separations. It
would be taking a very dismal view of life
when consciously or unconsciously we launch
into jeremiads against life in general and our
existence in particular. Paradoxically on a
deeper probe of what causes could be sifted
out as being the defacto reason for unhappiness is the inevitable vicious cycle eonstituting a series of partings and meetings.
Viewing life with levity is not uncommonAs if it were a justiﬁable able nemesis
people pay dearly by being unhappy fo
reasons unknown to them. The missing of a
lover separated from his beloved is only a
signal illustration of the insuperable wave of
causes and events that govern our life.
Life could be made less noisome if only we
could appreciate that beneath the seeming
maelstrom of difﬁculties and unhappiness
there persists an unwritten code that life is
governed by this fact : throughout our life we
could see a series of separations. As children
we are attached to each other so much that
on separation, as for instance joining different
schools we have distinctly felt unhappy. On
joining the hostel we are again separated from
those near and dear to us and our unhappiness would he only too apparent were it not
to be overwhelmed by that egregious act of
Providence that other interests prevail. The
bull—dog like tenacity with which a scholar
clings to his books, the seemingly anomalou’s
gusts with which a connoisseur of arts clings
to his objects d’art and if we can estimate
their misery when we separate them from
what they like best. The very same thing is
present in our lives if we care to analyse it.
When we strive to achieve something great and
fail to do so we are engulfed in grief; when
we lose those near and dear to us we are sad,
in all these we can see ‘that wave’ in operation—Le. a separation from what we cherish
most.
This aspect of life has been diagnosed by
various social scientists—the psychologists in
particular can trace most of our frustrations to
this insidious but nevertheless existing fact—a
separation from what we liked most Many of
the delightful novels in literature and short
stories are based on this topic. Tagore’s
short story about a rustic girl Ratan and her
amorous affairs with a school master makes
delightful reading and his conclusion that life
is a complex series of meetings and partings is
only too true. We could all make life happier
and more delightful if we only appreciate
that
‘There is a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-how them how we will.’
as also this chain of separations and meetings
which exists whether we like it or not. To
seek to rebuke this is only in vain as it disappears only momentarily and then reappears
with increased vigour !
Plus 9a change,
plus c’est la méme chose—No superﬁcial or
apparent change alters its essential nature.
V. RANGANATHAN.
this was scientiﬁcally bad for health, but who
cared for health ? All I cared for was sleep.
Soon I was back again in my pleasant dream
of the boss congratulating me, and when I
got up I felt really revived, refreshed and rejuvenated.

Yes,

this was

indeed

a good

morning. I looked at my watch to see how
much time was left for my boss’s dinner to
begin. To my surprise, I found that the time
was only 6 o’clock. I felt as if I had slept
for at least 6 hours. But, as I was keeping
the watch back, I happened to glance at the
date dial. It read ‘26’. Imagine my horror!
All the boss’s congratulations and the
lovely cakes and drinks were now actually
a dream. Frustration, disappointment and
despair came back to me. Once again, bad
morning, sir !
‘
'T. S. ANANTHU.

