CAMPASTIMES

[October l5th, I962

NEWS AND VIEWS

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

SURJIT RANDHAVA
NIRMALA

EDITORIAL
THE CODOPYRIN DRAMA
So muchhas been said about the unconventionally, conventional nature of the administration of medicine that it is sometimes
forgotten that earlier techniques have not
altogether lost their place in contempoarry
itania. The use of mantras (chanting l
devastating E) by the temple priests, therefore,
is a helpful reminder that the A.P.C. is not
the only medical weapon of the day. Pasteur
may not have approved of witch craft and it
is doubtful if the R. M. O. of any hospital
would consider this a potent medical means.
But there are times when complete submission
to the supernatural forces can turn' the tide
of sickness. One wonders if the waters of the
Adayar would have enjoyed their present
reputation if Pindu had been successfully
induced to believe in his rheumatism. In
fact, hearts have given way to smaller reasons.
It is said that Siddhartha was rushed to a
private nursing home because at the very
moment he was suspecting typhoid he was
being administered Codopyrin. He was, of
course, wrong, and the diagnosis as always
correct I I At the same moment, not realis-

ing the immensity of his fortune (not to say
of the tender care of ‘Herr Doktor’) and
exercising folly a hostelite is known to have
wailed, ‘ take me to a big doctor.’
Karna is known to have bled to the bite of
an insect while Dronacharya slept. May be
it is to help the more docile Karna of today
that there has been instituted a Medical Aid
Fund. Unfortunately, while Karna is still
bleeding, his Guru,Drona is rtz'll sleeping, blissfully unaware of this new organisation. Instituted to give ﬁnancial assistance at short notice
to victims of the Phenacetin, Codeine Phos-

phate and AcetylsalicylicAcid compounds, this
newly (but not so very shortly) instituted fund
is already extinct. It is worth pondering if
the extinct ever erupt. Vesuvius was silent,
not even dormant. But what is most strange,
is the utter lack of publicity, which is normally associated with even smaller ventures.
Alas, even funds for a ﬁend do not alack.
It was the swineherdiwith the golden goose
that cured the mute princess of her malady.
Perhaps the great question of our day will be
settled by the rishi—munz': of yesterday since
witchcraft and demonology are rather scary.
Treatment is sweetest when we do not know
much about medicine. Now, what about
Allopathics.

September was a month of historic importance for our Institute. The Directors of
the four IITs met in Madras. In the evening
the students got a chance to meet them over a
cup of tea. Apart from a mass rush towards
the tables by about six hundred hungry
engineers the rest of the function went off quite
well. All the Directors addressed the boys,
and the visitors were profuse in their praises
for our Institute, particularly the workshops.
The Outdoor Club has had a couple of
meetings this term to decide about their
activities for this year. Last year, apart
from a rock climbing trip and a beach party,
the organisation was singularly dormant.
This time, however, Dr. Gerhard Rouvé has
decided to get something done. His plans
include trips out of Madras during the various
holidays, boating, skin diving and swimming
lessons. (Dr. Rouvé happens to be an expert
swimmer). Come on you guys, where are
your subscriptions P
Remember Kapur’s advertisement for the
Film Club in the last issue of Campastimes .P
Ask the crowd that just got a glimpse of
Ingrid Bergman in blue before the sound
system failed (presumably due to a supply of
two instead of a single power phase) about
the improvement in their state of frustration
and loneliness. Ask me i ?
One thing I have to really take my hat
off to is our Co—operative Stores. Thanks
largely to the efforts of Mr. Muthaya it has
really got going. They are a bit cramped
for space at present but let's hope they can
manage to get something bigger.
A lot of road—building is going on around
the hostels, complete with neon lights and
all. One day, just when a part of the tarring had been completed, the bull-dozer was
found on the wrong side of the street. Since
the driver had to get the rooter across, and
because he couldn’t ﬂy, he calmly drove
over it with obvious consequences. The
remarks of the road-builders were worth
hearing. A funny point about these roads
is that they don’t lead to the hostels but
simply seem to go around them. With this
in view, the inmates of our wing have decided
to name our corridor ‘ Sunset Boulevard’
after that famous strip of macadam in
California.
An alarming number of lawn-mowers have
started collecting in the quadrangles. These
hay-burners, ignoring the almost complete
absence of grass, gather every evening and
stay till sunrise. 0n rainy nights they also
make frantic efforts to occupy Sid’s room.
Idea of the Month: How about an inter-IIT
fashion show ?
a

at

a:

METRIC AGE

331m iaastal
Blaise Pascal, French thinker and scientist,
was born on June 19, 1623. His main scientiﬁc work was concerned with mathematics and
the physics of ﬂuids. In philosophy he belonged to what can be called the mystical thinkers.
He died at the early age of 39. His 300th
death anniversary falls this year.
Out of his experience and reﬂection he
wrote: ‘Man is but a reed, the weakestthing
in nature; but a thinking reed. . . . . . ..It is
not from space that I must get my dignity,
but from the control of my thought. The
possession of whole worlds will give me no
more. By space the universe embraces me
and swallows me up like an atom, by thought
I embrace the universe .. . . . . . . .’

Teacher: The area of a station yard is 120
sq. ft. Convert this problem into metric
system.
Student: The area of the station metre is
11.148 m2.

Dear Sir,
This is aletter on one of the letters published in the last issue. I am referring to
the letter by Sri R. S. Sehgal, criticising
the story ‘ Nirmala.’
Following the customary way of giving the
tributes ﬁrst, I should say that the letter
was written in good style and was a very
interesting letter, considering nothing else,
and paradoxically enough deserves nothing
more than a cursory glance. For a person
who did not read the ﬁrst issue of Campastimes it was interesting, but almost to all of
us, the letter was at once repulsive and
absolutely could not be reconciled with the
criticisms that the story is due.
The ﬁrst suspicion that arises is whether
the letter was written in sober state. I am
forced to, because the plot is referred to as
‘ hackneyed ‘. I am sure that those who have
read the story will not agree with this,
assuming what was written was meant.
As the letter progressed I began to smell a
rat in the whole thing, and had a sure suspicion that thevcomments perhaps were not
referring to ‘ Nirmala’ but the result of
Confusion Confounded with some other story.
Towards the end, the author seems to have

got a ‘ criticise-anything ’ complex, especially
when he says that the phraseology reminds
him as having been in acheap ﬁlm. Like
Milton’s Satan he has endeavoured to ﬁnd
evil in things good.
What does he achieve except perhaps marr—

ing the enthusiasm of a young writer?
I won’t go a step and say that such letters
should not be published. Let us have interesting criticisms but let the eyes of the critics
be open to the good part of things also (the
inherent defect of a critic), let the criticisms
be just, let them not be hackneyed, severe
and arrogant, and above all let them not
inﬂict pain.

K. V. RANGASWAMI.
Dear Sir,
Mr. Seghal’s criticism of ‘Nirmala ’ is most
welcome, only thing is Ido hope he had all
this in mind while writing his prize-winning
poem ‘ Dejections ’ in the last Annual
Magazine and his enigmatic ‘To A Love
No Longer Mine’ in the previous one.
How much the better were these poems,
judging from Mr. Seghal’s own standards?
Certainly they had a much more‘stupid
theme’ and were dealt with much more
‘ stupidly ’ than anything in ‘ Nirmala.’
Mr. Seghal declares emphatically that the
dialogues are taken from ﬁlm producers in
Madras and Bombay. Wonder when Madras
and Bombay started producing English ﬁlms!
Mr. Seghal complains bitterly about an
‘ 0’ Henry twitch ’ at the end of the story.
What is so detestable about 0' Henry? Or
is it that Mr. Seghal failed to get such a
‘ twitch’ for his own poems, and feels
jealous about it?
People living in glass houses should not
throw stones at others.
T. S. ANANTHU.

LIGHTS ON I
ALI BABA’S CAVE
Dear Sir,

A million and one thanks to Mr. Kurvilla
Thomas for his wonderful description of my
dear old common room and its inhabitants in
his delightful article ‘ Ali Baba’s Cave ’. But
how dare he forget to even mention my new
curtains? Isn’t that the stuff that makes it
into a perfect Ali Baba’s Cave ?
Yours etc.
T. S. ANANTHU.
Common Room Secretary, Kaveri Hostel.

Dear Editor,
We students of I.I.T. are supposed to
form the cream of Indian student society,
and therefore are overloaded with all sorts of
work. But how is it possible for us to study
anything if there be no lights in the Hostel,
when we have to spend all the time when
the sun shines over us either in the claSsrooms
or in the N.C.C. Parade grounds P
The lights go off in every hostel at least
once in every two. days. It is high time the
authorities looked into these and a thousand
other matters concerning the students.
JUSTICE.

