October 15m, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

Letters—(Continued from page 4)

DOC'l'OR AT LARGE 2!!
Sir,
The medical aid situation in Krishna Hostel
has become farcical. The doctor is supposed
to come on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sun—
days. We never know when he comes or
goes unless we sit on the door-step of the
room at the expected time of arrival. Even
then more often than not he skips Tuesdays.
So a chap who has fallen ill on Monday is
forced to do his own doctoring till Thursday,
by which time most likely he will be alright.
The diagnosis taken by the Doctor takes
exactly I 5 secs. Here's a sample:
Boy: Sir, I have got some pain in my
heart and there are rapid palpitations all of
a sudden.
Doctor: (after IO secs.) Take an A.P.C.
Another boy: Doctor, I have got a cold . . .
Doctor: (peremptorily) Name?
Boy: Kishen. But, Sir, I have . . .
Doctor: Take codopyrin. Next boy.
But the fault can, I think, be laid at the
doors of the fact that the range of medicines
he is permitted to give is limited. All right,
the Doctor does not have time on his hands
they say. So, why can’t they get a Doctor
who does have time on his hands and who
can take at least a little interest? The
Diphtheria ﬁasco at the end of last year is
another type of thing that should be avoided.
Further there should be a competent medical
room assistant to keep stock of the medicines
and help in a general way.
Yours etc.,
CODOPYRIN.

Prisoner—(Continued from page 2)
mellowed down.

Over A Cup of Aye Aye Tea
This will probably be the last time the
library is being mentioned in these columns.
Nevil Shute’s autobiography ‘Slide Rule’
is classiﬁed along with the aeronautical and
aerospace sciences. One patient member of
the library staff explained the apparent
discrepancy as follows :
Nevil Shute was an engineer. He was an
aeronautical engineer. His autobiography is
that of an aeronautical engineer. Therefore
(admire the logic I) ‘ Slide rule’ must come
under aeronautics. While we are about it,
when is the super-airconditioned library building coming up? (or going down, in case
it’s underground!) And when is it being
stocked with 2 lakh of books, theme being a
lack of them at the present moment?

The staff quarters are like those in the
capital in so far as a knowledge of the type of
quarter will pin-point for you the pay-scale,
rank and marital status of its occupant. A
little extrapolation and the qualiﬁcations also
become known. I must say it saves a lot of
embarrassment. I suggest they name the roads
so that each has a deﬁnite ‘ snob appeal ’ level.
Sixteen ‘ Late Dr. Lechner Avenue’ might
raise a few eyebrows and, as far as the I.I.T.
marketing centre is concerned, be the equivalent of a ‘ Diners Club ’ credit card.
After having machine-gunned the facade of
the Director’s bungalow, the other quarters
sport beautiful two toned bull’s eyes fashioned
out of cement. Maybe they are intended to
distract eyes and catty's from the nest of the
surrealistic red, yellow and gray.
Pink and yellow is the mood of Tapti hostel.
All we need is a lady with an umbrella to
complete the picture.

Some time later he had got

back to his normal condition.

It was during

those days that he realized the magnitude of
what he had done. He used to lie awake
thinking of Kamini.
All through the night the distracting
voices of warders would ﬂoat through the
jail breaking the chain of his thoughts. He
remembered the time when the words ‘ Sab
Achha Hai’ used to disturb his sleep, but
slowly he had got used to everything.
Life -had again become smooth. Then

To further the cause of the D.M.K. movement a secret station beams special Tamil
‘music’ towards the hostels at four A.M.
from the general direction of Velachery. Six
A.M. ﬁnds A.C.M. (Acoustic Counter Measures) employing high gain high distortion

ampliﬁers retaliating with Hindi ‘ music ’ from
the Thasamani range. This acoustic crossﬁre has a disastrous effect on a student’s nerves

and the distorted tunes ring in the back of the
head all day long.

It is learnt that plans have been ﬁnalised
for the eight-bed hospital, complete with
cubicles, attached bathrooms and electric
Crematorium.
V. S.

For a long time Krishna Hostel was the
only hostel without a notice board. The
notices freely adorned the wall outside the
mess and were more often than not carrying a
barrage of comments. ‘ It never rains but it
pours ’. We have now two notice boards, of
which one is never used.
The vegetarian mess food has become so
good now that there was a general exodus
from the Non-vegetarian side and about
ﬁfteen boys came over including a Non—
vegetarian Mess Committee member! The
mess bill however has risen appreciably by
about Rs. 10.
Some mysterious pits about four feet deep
have been dug, one near each wing and one
by the side of the staircase. Speculation
was running high as to their use. Someone
suggested it was to catch the overﬂow of the
overhead tank. Pai said that it might be
for planting Bougainvillea, to beautify the
hostel in anticipation of the Director’s Meeting. Ultimately the actual explanation came
out. It was for earthing the fuse boxes in
each wing (an effort I suppose, to curb the
larger number of power failures). Last
month only a few particular wings would
experience the failure. Now, there is a
further intriguing development: the lights
in half the wing go off. The electrician
scratches his head and says how can it be
so ?
M. V. R.

the words, ‘ Sab Achha Hai ’ had become a

lullaby to him.
He woke up with a start. The sun was
streaming in. It was a nice blue
.
The day he had entered the jail was also
beautiful, blue and clear.
To all appearances it might have been
the same day. He stood then looking at the
jail and looking back at the last fourteen
years which might have been counted off
as a dream. But it wasn't so. He knew
he had entered y‘oung. His youth had
been transformed into age.
His servant was there with the car. He
went home. The house reminded him of
many things, his youth, his affairs and.
Kamini. He smiled as he thought of her.
At night he lay in his room. Everything
seemed too strange. He couldn’t sleep.
The silence was biting. There was no
disturbance.
He felt uneasy. The absence of those
assuring words, ‘ Sab Achha Hai’ made him
nervous.
It was quite late in the night, and he
still couldn’t sleep. Suddenly he realized he
was free he could go out. So he got up
and passed out of the door into the darkness.
In the morning a warden of the jail
found him asleep in front of the jail and
woke him up.
R. S. SEHGAL. .

Feeding the Poor

A lecturer in civil engineering by way of
pulling up a sleeping student asked,
‘ Bees-sal—bad or Come September? ‘Periodical Test’ drolled the sleepyhead sleepyly.
*

5k

*

orI poor feeding P

