EDITORIAL

"Where shall we three meet again?
ning or rain?"

In thunder, light-

The last issue of this semester is out and is a
bouncer on inter-lIT.
When, where and how did it nIl begin? The thrills,
the sacrifices, and the excitp:ne .. lt that the participants
partake in in every meet?
The grapevine reveals that the concept of an inter-lIT
meet was first thought of by a prominent Surd (yes, we read
Surd) from Bombay. The idea, it seems, was put forward as
a proposed dual meet between KGP and Borobay, and over the
years, it has grown into a full-fledged meet. The first meet
\'.~dS held in Bombay.
Though a makeshift affair as are all
pioneer efforts, i t has set a tradition in the span of twenty
years, which to same has become a festival, to some others a
ritual and to yet others a coveted prize to be won at all
costs. The meet started off on a knockout basis but turned
league with the Bombay meet in 1978.
I

Madras first won tl1e general championship in 1970 (8th
inter-lIT, which it hosted) and has been winning it ever since.
In an attempt to stem this flow, th idea' of splitting the
inter-lIT meet into simul taneo'l:S meets, each lIT h?s 't,:ng some
games by rotation each year has been mootedo Contingents
v;i th common players vJil1 be ~~ ffected.
rl

Over the past few years, the meets seem to be bre9dingplaces for unpleasant incidents.. There seems to be some sort
of bad blood, or one could call it a case of misplaced interests, a sort of apathetic indifference in some, a cloak-anddagger nature in others, •••
A healthy spirit of competitiveness should prevail, but
one should be careful enough not to exceed the limito In this
regard, we canlt but recall the words of the reviver of the
Olympic movement, Baron de Coubertin, who said, "The important
thing in life is not the triumph, but the struggle .. " These
words have been in the first pagp.s of the inter-lIT souvenirs
over the years, but to little avail.
In this inter-lIT preview issue, we present various
facets of inter-lIT as seen by students, captains, advisors
and the Director. SPECTATOR will be covering the meet and
bringing out daily tabloids at Kharagpur ..
spectator bouncer issue (1)

