nec.r Cauvery and provide horizont2.1 ~?rs at Scngcm.
I want to buy G "Hercules mul ti-tr2.iner" I which costs C'cbout
~ 23,000, by the end of the year.
JIT(B) heS one. Using
l. tone C0.n exercise all points of one's bodyo Twelve people
can us it simultaneously. Unfortunctely, funds are the
problem
I'm shifting the cricket stadium to the NCC
ground - there'll be one concrete pitch and two net pr2ctices
c?.n go on simul tc·ncously. I alsu w2nt to conduct C~n open ca.rrom tuurnament this year.
0

000

s~

Wh2t plans do you have for the coaching c2mp?

3:

Unf:Jrtun2tely, I won't be in stc?tiun for the first ba.lf of
the c2mp. I will have to depute s~~eone for this period.
Generally, I will leave the practice of each te~m to be supervisen by the respective captaino

S:

What is your reaction to the fighting th?t goes on between
TITs ~t inter-lIT?

B:

I deplore such behaviour, but I think such incidents are
blown up out of proportiono

*******
Prof. Surjit Singh is 2 .professor in the
RSIC. He was the Gymkhana President frc'm
1974 to 1976 2.nd is our present SPORTS
J~DVISOR •
Do lUU think there should be an'interlIT meet at 211?
The inter-TIT meet is a guod activity
and must carryon - it promotes interlIT inter2,ctiun.

s:

WhGt are the pros end cons of splitting the meet?

A:

There are four basic problems with the present system. \tvi th
contingents of 150 from each lIT an I 'IT (though not Madr2s)
might finrj it difficult to 0ccomod?te such a large number.
Secondly, with so m2ny simult2neous games, we need many officials, who ere difficult to procure, especially in small
The third problem is railway reservatiun. Last but
town~.
nut the lec-st is the problem that the non-sportsmen who pay
for the meet can't even wCl.tch it - whereas if we follow the
pl?n of spii tting the meet I C'll the four above proble~s get
solved. Also,? 4 year course student ro?y not even have a
meet at his institute during his stay. Of course, J am open
to suggestions. We could try it on an experimental basis
fur one yearo
If we find the system un?cceptable, we could
spectctor bouncer issue (23)

