TWELVE PAGES

FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY

llT Madras, ISth December, I962

IO nP.

SIDENT LUEBKE LAYS
FOUNDATION STONE OF
I.I.T. MADRAS
people and about their wonderful achieve—
ments in various ﬁelds of science and
technology since the end of the last World

War.

He gave a short account of the history

of our young Institute. Built at the enormous
cost of Rs. 8 crores, he said it was sure to
produce engineers of a very high standard.
He then requested President Dr. Liibke
to lay what he called ‘the corner stone of
this visible symbol of Indo-German collaboration for the service of mankind’, thus

demonstrating to the world that differences
in culture and history need be no hindrance

to successful co—operation.
The President then laid the foundation
stone and in doing so, he said it was the
wish of the German Government to help
India in her economic development and put
at her disposal the experience of an older
nation. He praised the high ideals behind
the establishment of the Institute and added,

that it could best be said in the words of
the great leader Mahatma Gandhi: ‘Know—
ledge is the common property of all people ’.
The Director, Prof. B. Sengupto then
proposed a hearty vote of thanks and later
showed and explained to the President a
scaled model of the Institute Campus. The

entire Institute wore a gay and festive ap-

All of a sudden, there was a loud cheering,
and all eyes were turned towards the main
entrance: Chief Minister Kamaraj had entered the theatre. He was welcomed by Dr.

pearanCe.

A. L. Mudaliar, and soon they were immersed

BY OUR STAFF REPORTER

IIT Campus, Dec. 3, 1962 (CNS)-The

erected

All along the roads gates had been
welcoming the

and his party.

German President

Even the half completed

buildings had a fresh look about them.
The open-air theatre resembled a busy bee-

hive with workers putting a ﬁnishing touch
on the decorations. The central stage as
well as the arena diaplayed the ﬂags of both
West Germany and India. The Madras
Police Band in attendance was playing some

old and favourite tunes.
the
up.
full
side

By about 4.00 in

evening, the theatre was getting ﬁlled
The student gallery was packed to the
inspite of the Davis Cup Match. Out—
the theatre, the cavalcade of cars was

quite a sight.

It was unusual to witness a

function ended on a very thrilling note when
the entire audience stood to attention as the
Madras Police Band struck the national anthems of both countries.

in deep conversation. The long hours of
waiting and CerCtﬂthﬂ soon elapsed, and
exactly at the stroke of 4.30 (as scheduled),

To the happiness and delight of all
students and staff members, the Registrar
declared the next day a holiday in honour
of the President’s visit.
Soon the crowd began to scatter and as

President Dr. Heinrich Liibke and Mrs.

they went away, the calm atmosphere of the

Lﬁbke entered the theatre. With a beaming smile and waving hand, he walked
owards the dais followed by Prof. Humayun
Kabir, Chief Minister Kamaraj, Prof. B. Sengupto, Mr. R. Natarajan and Mr. Venkat-

campus returned once again. All felt that
the weather had been the best ally in making

raman.

The entire theatre stood up in a

the President’s visit an event to be remembered for years to come.
K. M. KRIPANARAYAN

thunderous applause—an applause he might
remember even after his return to Germany.

(See also page: 2 and 12)
The function began on an auspicious note
with an invocation by two members of the

staff.

Welcoming the guests, Dr.

A. L.

trafﬁc jam like. this in our otherwise quiet
campus. But it made the evening very

NIudaliar spoke of the several links between
India and Germany. He appreciated the

gmﬂaﬂﬁhmd wabyéw

pleasant and worthwhile (watching).

generous attitude of .West Germany towards

a//a'/§ ceaaézd

the planned development of our country.

He said that the Institute owed not a little
of its progress to the assistance given by
On account of the vacation, there
will be no issue of Cam pastimes

dated January ISth, I963.
Instead, Campastimes dated Feb-

ruary I5th, I963 will be adouble
issue.

J/Zégé ﬁarhézzrm, a: was};

West Germany in the form of equipment and
teaching personnel.
The Registrar, Mr. R. Natarajan then read

ﬂaﬁgmm} ﬁat 345%

out messages frOm the leaders of our country

:25in a/azze era/Z 6!” gig/gya/é

as well as from Germany wishing the function
all success;

‘

Prof. Humayun Kahir spoke in a dramatic
manner about the genius of the German

aware/{on (5)228.

