[December |5th. I962

CAMPASTIMES

The German President Arriving at the
Open-air Theatre

Fantasies in a
Delirium
or
As you please
Is the world wide? No, don’t you dare
persuade me about the huge dimensions of
the world—not that you are wrong in your
calculations for which you might have gone
to the extent of ‘ damning ’ the ‘ accused ’

time providing only twenty-four hours a day
and not a tick more,—but that I am utterly
incapable of appreciating them, at the present moment, due to reasons which I want to

investigate myself.
Now, the point is, it is too narrow for me,
for my imagination, for my wonder and other
peculiar moods—I mean the materialistic
world which we live in. Everything seems
so trifling and trivial to me, that a careless
air has taken over me completely and is
reaching, I believe, its soaring heights. Why,
to cite an instance, I feel so conﬁdent of my

performance in the ensuing periodical in
Machine Design, as if I myself had propounded every syllable of design principles

on which the whole world of machinery might
have been based.

Oohh ! !

My brains are

split by these elated, elusive and ﬂeeing
thoughts. What’s Wrong with me? (accepting or assuming something is, or was right
with me). Introspection, they say, is the
most highly advocated principle in times of
danger, especially in times of Such jeopardising situations wherein the victim ﬁnds his

brains about to blow off.

So let me conduct

that test on my poor self.
First of all the ﬁrst, by any chance, am I

proud? No, No ll Only the other day I
was beaten hollow by some blessed new guy
—I mean in table tennis—and my hitherto
imperishable fame has

gone to the dogs.

Another possible question can be: Am I in
an ebb of eccentricity i‘ Surely not, dear
reader ! See, if I were indeed placed in that
excited state of ‘ mental equilibrium’, won’t
my kind-hearted colleagues be benevolent
enough to admit the in that sane locality
where the insane are inhabited ? P
0.K.—Coming to a more important delicate point worth discussing—am I in (frus—
trated) love? Hahhhaahah. . . . . I have to
laugh at my own pathetic question since the
answer is a strong and concentrated

‘ No ’.

You know why i That is not the case, for the
simple reason, that these are not the ‘ symp-

toms ’ of a (frustrated) love.

If I were really

engaged in that holy activity, I should be,

as Orlando was (you know whom I mean),
carving something on the barks of the tall and
huge, thin and short trees of the deer park,
so near to us. Or locating myself in the
same spot, I should be prattling away to the
speeding clouds up above me, in (vain) hope
to convey ‘ some message ’ to ‘ someone ’
‘somewhere’; or I should ﬁnd myself mea-

suring the dimensions, with my odd footing

on the solitary regions, of the coasts of
lovely Marina in cold nights, u'nder dark
skies, with (frustrated) Lover’s popular garments on, (visually, an old soiled pair of
trousers with one leg folded up, a similar
shirt but a bit torn here and there yet vividly
showing the symbolic Cupid’s arrow and all
the hairs on the head at the peak of their
disorderliness, besides, of course, an awfully
grown beard).
Am I so highly feverish, that with all the
generous supply of codrpyrins and aristamids, I am not able to recover P—No, this

is fallacious, because, whatever may be the
-disease-—-—chronic or acute, codopyrins or its

persistent dosage has got to cure it, especially,
more so, in the case of I.I.T. students to
which ‘ fortunate’ category Ibelong. Or, is it,

.as seldom or often attributed, a pain of
pleasure? Deﬁnitely not! Only yesterday,
I remember, I was disappointed when I tried
to impress one of my lecturers, with all the

fortunately the thing blasted off right in the
‘ embryo stage ’, and I was just spared by a

laborious and lengthy to narrate here. Yet
each and every time, I am meeting with a

severe warning not to raise such silly ques~

ﬂat failure.

cornpass of knowledge T possessed, by asking

tions which would reﬂect on my doting
wisdom.
Then, what has happened to me? I illus-

some ‘genuine’ doubt, which, I thought,
would take him a long time to answer; un-

too, more complicated in

saying ‘ God alone knows’ as, I doubt, even
the Lord above is afraid to face my—what ? ?
Well, If I had known what it was, why need
I blabber all this P
E. S. B. Rae.

trated one. but, tried many other methods,

fact, and too

I can’t even forget the matter,

