December l5th, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

PERSONALITIES—(S)

Fttb Batu. I

Qt!) lﬂ¢K1

Fun liners

Fungus. .,

Humans.

Mil-I.IuT—g- M}...

Stunt".

the factor may tend to a value B = I so that a

DR. D. V. REDDY

Cbt Uennag Fantastron
Qircuit

remarkable state is reached, wherein there is
no output for a given input. It is this re—

AN ELECTRONIC ANALOGUE T0
SIMULATE THE PASSAGE THROUGH
THE I.I.T.

The resistances RI—R5 are dissipative elements representing loss of wealth. Besides
the usual payments, certain special factors

Exhaustive and painstaking research has been
conducted in the past few weeks to devise an

introduce special effects and a guide is given

Reddy families of Andhra.

Devoted to the

His classes are one of the most interesting

vehicles tend to become public property and
and increase dissipation in the relevant cases.

input. Brieﬂy the network proposes to si—
mulate the wonderful and not entirely loss-less
passage through the I.I.T. Before any

various factors too exhaustive to even men-

basic deﬁnition has to be expounded and a
fundamental property of the network recog-

nisecl.

The lowest unit of intelligence shall

be termed a micro—Bohr.

The basic property

of the circuit is that only a signal of onemilli-Bohr strength is admitted and also that
capacitance acts as a short circuit when a value

ones you can ever attend. You may not like
Applied Mechanics, but you would certainly

of a milli-B. is reached.

appreciate his jokes.

presented to the remarkable M.B. strainer

Some assert that jokes

The signals, analogous to students, are ﬁrst
which is a high pass ﬁlter having the desired property of screening out signals of a

are jotted down in his lecture notes.

Some of his jokes have been classiﬁed as
low Bohr value.
‘P.].’ by the more boisterous students, but
unlike that of most others, his reaction is

not to stare at you with glaring eyes and a
red nose. Instead, he manages the situation
beautifully by saying: ‘Sorry l That is not a
joke 1’.
Once upon a time he had a ﬂare for say—

ing ‘right’. Students of IIIB. Tech. insist that
he crossed the ‘century’ mark in“ the number
of ‘rights’ he uttered in one hour at least
ﬁfteen times. It is said that the cruel
Mechanical students of IV vear teased him

on this account.
Then this is what Dr.
Reddy perhaps thought:
‘I say right too
many times, right? Students tease 'me for
that, right? That is wrong, right? ThereforeI should stop saying right, right?’ If
any of us had any doubts regarding his control over his mind and mouth, we immediately dispelled them, for believe it or not,
nota single ‘right’ has been uttered since
then.

Dr. Reddy obtained his Doctorate from the
famous Liverpool University, where he ex—
celled in debating and other extra-curricular
activities, too.

You want to know how many countries he
has visited? It is easier to count the num—

ber that he has not.

In Western Europe and

America, he has been to all countries except
Spain, Portugal, Luxembourg, Norway and
Finland.
Interviewed by Campastimes, he placed the
blame for the low standard of education in.

(i) Availability of Transport—Such items

behaviour there is no output for any given

its elements, and suggest design procedures, a

intellectual side of life, he preferred to take
up the line of teaching in spite of its mani—
fold obstacles, difficulties and hardships.

herewith.

electronic network, henceforth to be known
as the Vennag Fantastron circuit, having the
remarkable property that in its asymptotic

attempt is made to explain the network and

This is Dr. D. V. Roddy, right P
Dr. Reddy hails from one of the famous

markable behaviour that makes this network
ideally suited for the given conditions.

The switch K0 is closed at

time as time t=o years.
The capacitances C1— C5, simulate the
various stumbling blocks present in the path
of the students. A host of factors have to
be taken into consideration while designing
these capacitances. We list the more important of tnese here below.

(i) Branch—This factor is by far the most
important and has 5 degrees of freedom (for
an ordinary monosexual human being). While
designing it has to be borne in mind that
the ﬁrst two stages are dependent on various

other factors (to be mentioned are later stage),
and that the third stage is constrained to move

as scooters and other mechanical powered

(ii) Messing charges are inﬂuenced by
tion en passant, be it sufﬁcient to say that it
all depends on the right choice of individuals!
(iii) Absence of entertainment at close
range, tales of broken projectors, outdated
ﬁlms and absent Operators, tend to bring out
the advantages and the necessity of going out
often and increase losses.
'
(iv) There is, however, one redeeming
feature that a great proportion of losses can
actually be avoided if membership of the
MIG club

is exhibited (for a deﬁnition of

MIG please refer to the New I.I.T.- Dictionary—Ist Edition—April I, 1964).
The switches Iii—Ii5 operate at approximate intervals of 365 days each. The gain
in degrees for the network is a B.Tech.
However, as was pointed out earlier, the switch

K5 may not operate at all if the feedback
factor

for

the ﬁfth stage happens to be

equal to I.
The above circuit is at present undergoing
a series of routine tests at Madras. However
due to the extremely high time constants involved the signals have only come to the
fourth stage and the analysis after this is

pure conjecture. The results of this great
experiment will be published by 1964. and
wait then the world of Electronics must
need wait with renewed patience, courage

in the Mechanical Plane (m-Plane having real
and imaginary axes !) The ﬁnal stages show a
lot of independence, and are characterised by

and hope.

their highly discriminatory nature capable of
exhibiting resonance phenomena too!
(ii) The Sciences—These are of a very

in all countries and is Copyright of N.R.V.S.

secondary

nature.

Their asymptotic

somewhat eccentric

behaviour

N.R.V.S.
P.S.—‘Vennag Fantastron Circuit’ is registered

and

sometimes

makes One believe that in the ﬁrst two stages
they are really important, but by a suitable
choice of circuit paramrters, and other
twists and kinks to be acquired only through
experience; the effects of this factor on the
design, may to a large extent be considered
negligible. At any rate only trivial solutions
may exist and a word of warning is extended at this stage and this is that brutal

methods of attack are entirely to be avoided
and only the elegant methods practised.
(iii) Administrative Strains—These pre-

HEARD
THIS BEFORE H!
An American explaining to another American of the game-of cricket :
‘Cricket is really simple. You have two
sides : one out in the ii eld one in.
‘Each man on the side that’s in, goes out
in turn to have his innings. And
when he’s out, he comes in, and the

next man goes in (or out) until he’s out.
Then, when all are out, that ends the
innings, and the side that’s out in the
ﬁeld comes in.

sent a real problem to the designer in the
nature of surprise periodicals, love-letters

‘And the side that’s been in goes out and

society to teachers, and completely absolved
students of it. ‘India has got ﬁrst rate
students, second rate equipment and third

from the departments etc. and introduce
such effects as distortion of incoming signals

tries to get those coming in, out.
‘Sometirnes, of course, you get men who

(due to their non-linear nature), and extraneg

rate teachers’, he declared emphatically.

ous interference giving rise to noise and

are still in and not out.
‘And when both sides have been in and

India squarely upon the inability of the teach-

ing staff and the disrespect paid by the

Regarding

Campqstimes

he had two im-

portant suggestions to make. One was to make

it even more humormis, and the other was to

starta Science Column.
his suggestion, right ?

We should accept
T.S.A.

To

make us love our Country, our

Country,

Ought to be lovely.
——EDMUND BURKE.

hum in the notework.

A safe procedure in

all cases of doubt is to proﬁt by experience.
The inductances Ll—L5 represent the
losses occurring at every stage of the cir-

cuit. Low values of Micro-Bohrs tend to
get shut out by the capacitors and are then
passed to ground where the signals are preprovided paths to return to original states of
instability and emptiness.
A feedback path is also provided. Positive
Feedback is used and the feedback factor B
may be calculated using very complicated
formulae. Judging from present eXperience
one is inclined to believe with a reasonable
amount of conviction, that at the ﬁfth stage

out, including not outs that ends the
game.’

a
a:
at:
I bought a wooden whistle,
But it wooden whistle,

So I bought a steel whistle,
But steel it wooden whistle,

So I bought a lead whistle,
Steel they wooden lead me whistle,
So I bought a tin whistle
And now I tin whistle.
*
a:
*
collected by
s. a. MAJUMDAR.

