CAMPASTIMES

Workshop and

[December l5th. I962

FROM HERE AND
THERE

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

SURle RANDHAVA

WRONG ASSUMPTIONS 3!

Mrs, Bird
(In True Nutty Style)
Long, long ago in Never Never Land,
there lived a female bird, who married a
male bird, and had four pretty little children.

Mrs. Bird was very intelligent. She read a,
number of books and were very powerful glasses‘. She (like Aristotle) did not believe in the
practical. She only believed in reading,
reading and more reading—and doing nothing.

Surprised? I wonder if you all feel the
same way I do about the ex-name of my
column. I thought ‘ News and Views ’ was
hardly suitable for an item that consisted
mostly of scraps picked up from here and there
with very little news in them. You can hardly
blame me for the lack of information in my
column. As it is, very little seems to happen

One day while she was hatching her eggs
she fell to thinking. Here is my chance {she
thought) to bring forth into this world a
superior breed of birds—intellectual birds.
Accordingly she taught her chicks everything

in and around our Campus during the course
of a month. And when it does, I get a
chance to cover it only if it does not fall
within the category of sports, literary activities, etc. (they all like to be placed separately);
so with due apologies to Shirley Rehamis
(mark the similarity in initials) of the Holly-

under the sun from the History of little Greek

wood pulp press, I have changed the handle

birds to bird Psychology. She also taught
them bird Mathematics and Physics and read
them select pieces of bird Literature.
All her chicks were boy chicks, but she did
not permit them any female companions—
‘intellectuals, you know ’ she said.' But she
forgot to teach her chicks to ﬂy. ‘ I have
taught them everything there is to know in
aerodynamics (she reasoned) and hence they
should ﬁnd no difﬁculty in ﬂying. Suddenly
a catastrophe occurred. Mrs. Bird died of
brain fever and Mr. Bird of sorrow.
If you fellows happen to pass by Never
Never Land you might notice a bespectacled

of this column to ‘ From Here and There’.
Dr. Lﬁbke visited the Institute on the
third of December. Details appear elsewhere
in this issue.
A lot of haze and dust disappeared from the

All the other birds thought her very intellient;

bird.

He is very thin,

his feathers droop,

and his eyes are red like a drunkard’s. He
spends most of his time writing equations in
aerodvnamics—Bernoulli’s, Euler’s and Netta’s
and Ioukowshi’s and so on. But he still does

not know how to ﬂy. He may die in a week.
Its the same with our Institute. They
seem to think (like Aristotle and Mrs. Bird) .
that Workshop is superﬂuous, unneci-ssary etc.
(for third and fourth years at least). The
Electricals have lab. (which helps a lot), the
Civils have Survey, the Metallurgist and the
Chemicals do something or the other, but what
of the poor Mechanicals i"
The green engineer has to supervise a set of
workmen who have been in their line for a
long time. He must necessarily have some
skill in working the machines. How can. you
design cast pieces, welds, and rivets when you
have never done casting, welding or rivetting?
How can you handle complicated machinery
when you can’t thread a screw? What are
our Workshops for ?
In Germany engineers work for two years
in a factory, in Russia they work for three,
but in our Institute ha I ‘ We are intellectuals—superior breed, you know ’.

We quite

understand the administration problems involved.

We know there is alack of hands.

We appreciate the difﬁculties—but let us not
forget Mrs. Bird.
—PAICHANDY.
P.S.: Three of Mrs. Bird's chicks died
due to the total lack of female companionship.
Let us not forget that, too.

ANSWERS TO

atmosphere when we saw the last of the
Terminal Examinations on the 17th of

November. There is no denying the fact
that .two tests a day were enough to sap the
life out of the bravest.

After a few of them,

one just carried on in a sort of daze. A
remarkable capacity for switching the brain
from one topic to another was required. .To
cite an example, mornings my mind was
crammed with Moorish inﬂuence on Spanish
architecture and probably natural frequencies
of engine crankshafts, whereas afternoons
found me turning my beacon towards pentodes, crane-hooks, and things like that.
I made a few interesting observations abOut
examination nights. If one studies a subject
a few days in advance, the night before D—Day
is bound to catch the early bird on the wrong
foot. It’s that feeling of conﬁdence that kills.
Moral: ‘Don’t go seeking trouble, let it
ﬁnd you ’.

Enormous quantities of coffee were consu—
med. Heaters were repaired, condensed milk
was bought, and we were all set. I’d sit
down with the idea of going deep into the
night. Things would be easy till abOut
eleven, at which time we‘d all break it up

for a cup after which it would be a feat to
keep the eyelids separated. So, set the alarm
for four-thirty and hit the sack. And, of
course, when the ghastly hour arrived it
used to be the simplest thing in the world'to
persuade myself that I knew everything, and
carry on doing what all sensible things do in
the wee hours of the morning. That I'd ﬁnd
out differently sometime later is another
story.
Dr. Klein has got the top of his wagon
painted a beautiful off-white.
Someone
remarked that from above it looks like a
cross between an Italian laundry and a New

York Helicopter landing ground 1
Our Canteen needs looking into very badly.
From bad its gone on to worse. The food served
is pretty rough but the condition of the kitchen
really takes the cake. The co-operative stores
sh0uld start arranging something in the way
of cold drinks and snacks. That might wake
the Canteen people up, when they start losing
customers,

‘ FIGURE IT ’

a

(I)2428(2)729(3)to?rm.
——

618

2214

597

—

-—

10

3

6

7

o

So what, so the structure failed ! Fundas*
not clear, this is what the student community
would say l l The structures are failing every

year but yet we don’t seem to have analysed
the proposition. Who is to be blamed? The
students—not at all, the staff-members—don’t
talk about that. Then who else ? These are

the wrong assumptions upon which is based
the rod .of testing our knowledge, the socalled ‘ Periodicals ’.
We never assume safety factor equal to be

one, then why assume humanfactor equal to
be one? A human being, so complicateda
machine and even then the efﬁciency cent per
cent—Fundas not clear. It is next to impossible to have so many examinations at a stretch

and that, too, two in one day. No question of
preparation holidays at all. My dear Sirs, it
voilates the ‘ Second Law of Thermodynamics’.
Not only the student community but even
some of the staff-members are heard
saying :-—

1.

I am not in favour of periodicals but

don't leak it out, because I am a Government

Employee.
2. An intelligent boy would become less
intelligent when he leaves this Institute.
3. There it stilla better way of judging
onc’s knowledge.

Last year, our seniors were taken aback by
a quiz. It was quite unexpected and the
question was still unexpected.

The question

was ‘ Why yOur performance in the last
periodicals was so bad i‘ ’ Not going into
details, the following were some of the
answers :
I. We are B. Tech. students and not
M. Tech. students.
2. Don’t take all the things for granted.
3. Don't go like express.
4. Don’t draw the diagrams in air.
But the most common complaint was, ‘ Our

Periodicals System? itself is the reason for
that. I would like to congratulate the teacher
concerned for having taken such an initiative
and reacting sportingly over it. Why the
other teachers also dont’ realise that if the
majority of the students suffer, there is some«
thing wrong at the bottom leaving aside the
system of periodicals.
The other day we had ‘ National Emergency
Meet’ and a little bird says that it was
decided in that meet to have ‘ Surprise Periodicals ’. It is quite a high time to hold
‘Institute Emergency Meet ’ and to think
over this matter of vital importance.

But I

am ata complete loss to understand as to why
a student member with a power of ‘ Veto ’ is
not included in the council when the matters

' concerning students are decided. Believe me
if so dene, the result would be far far better
because a student understands the students’
difﬁculties in a much better way.
If we actually want that the purpose of
this I.I.T., ‘the Institute of National Impor—
tance ’ is fulﬁlled, here is one of the solutions

of this controversial problem. There should
be only three examinations placed at equal
intervals, each carrying 25% of total importance and the portions covered in one should
not be included for others. The remaining
25%. should go to the ‘ Tutorials ’.
A step towards this direction would be
(Continued on page 5)

486

That

375

chicken or the egg?
It might interest budding engineers to know
that a student of the Madras Medical College
thinks that volume is measured in cubic cubic
microns, which makes it just about six dimen-

I’m sorry to say that apart from collecting
subscriptions from the boys, the Outdoor
Club has not been able to do anything.
Let’s h0pe they put their minds to work

sional; and that we all know is three too

during the coming vacations and arrange

2805

(4)

Eggs are fast becoming the favourite food
of the I.I.Tian.
They make breakfasts
eatable (thus enabling one to face the rest of
the day), they are used when one is off colour
and also when a person cannot muster up
enough guts to go through a regular meal.

Sir,

(5)

13 Steps.

3037

reminds me

which

came ﬁrst, the

many.

670

V. RATHAN BABU.

A few days back a IV year Chemical
Engineering student come rusing to me at
some odd hour wanting to know the difference between a solute and a solvent. Wonder
what he’ll come up with next year P

some activities for 1963.
I’ll close by wishing all the readers a merry
Christmas and a very happy New Year.
Idea of the Month :

How about the I.I.T.

arranging a ball in aid of the
Defence Fund.

National

