December l5th, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

Letters—(Continued form page 4)

OUR CANTEEN—AN
INTROSPECTION

another donation to the country which would
promise better engineers!
Yours etc.
P.R.C.

The clock chimed one silently. There was
no tintinnabulation of the bells as they do in
factories.

We were reminded of our lunch.

_ *Fundas: A common word with students mean-

My friend and I left for the canteen, which

ing fundamentals.

I am informed, is considered to be the best

CURVES 8c STRONG FEELING
Sir,

Indeed surprising,—I mean that article on
‘Curves etc.’ by one of our distinguished
writers. This is not the time when we can
afford to admire curves and the rest of them.

There are already so many Moravia’s who
have written abundantly about the subject. If
you may wish this to be called a diversion,
well, I differ from it. We are serious, fully
mindful of the dire situation we are in. At

such a juncture, an article dealing profusely
with a familiar and a so well discussed topic,
is rather un-welcome. The contributor could
have written something more creative, and
more heartening. Hereafter, I feel, that such
articles should not be published, when there
are things demanding serious attention.

islands? Ofcourse, one never knows the
exact proportions till a thing is built. So,
think big, act big and build big, And when
something really big comes along, prune 1t,
break it, alter it, till the relative size is the

same.

It is reported that the embarrasing

radius of turn of the big cars which were ex-

pected on the third of December was the
reason why the central island at the BonnDelhi intersection was altered. The money
spent on breaking this (Oh ! so beautiful !)
island would have provided one day’s meal for
all the starving people who helped to build it.

appeared and vanished, after taking the
dirtiest duster and making it ﬂash across the

table with an unpalatable murmur. The
table became dirtier still on amount of this
‘ cleaning ’ and a bad odour began emanating!
It was quarter past one. We were yet to
be attended to. Came there at last a whiteclad man with a tray in his hand. Alas, he
passed by unobtrusively without responding
to our hungry looks. It was only later that
We knew that he was not assigned to our
table I

There, another man was seen coming

in. Yes, he was approaching us. We were
right. He did come, and it was twenty-five
past one.

Yours etc.

Even assuming that the canted roofs of the
gateways do infact correspond to the Clark-Y

One of those who

airfoil

feel strongly about
it.

abominable price.

“ Get us dosaz' ”, I said.

Room No. 105 is in the news again. Not
only is the ‘black’ board bleached, but rumour
has it that this bleaching action is due to
the Chlorine-Sulphurdioxide combination
emanating from the pipes leading down from

“ Sorry, Sir, exhausted.”
“We will have chapari with
then.”

CLOSE DOWN !!

section,

Rs.

the Chem. Labs.

My dear Editor,
I was much shocked rather became mad

with anger when

Kidneys are kidney shaped, and so are some
sophisticated swimming pools, but traﬂ'ic

in the Velacheri village !
We got ourselves seated on the ‘ backless '
chairs before a ‘ shaky ’ table. The remnants
left over by the previous patrons of the canteen
were still on the table, and particles of rice
were seen scattered over.
“ Get the table cleaned ”, I yelled.
A dull-looking man, with a long-drawn face,

I read the story-like-

nuisance, ‘ His Last War’ written by Mr.

Kripanarayan. During such a time of emergency, when every true Indian’s blood is
boiling, when every true Indian is deter—
mined to push back the Chinese of our territory

50,000 apiece

is an

Lack of attention in the

class room is attributed to the saporiﬁc effect
of the ether-lecture group.
Now that the ‘cup is almost empty I might
risk the following from the ‘Punch’
‘Unsolicited letters, Punch never returns, In

reduction in the number of sweet pieces, nor

WAYWARD BUS

dawned when one does not see on the notice
boards a notice (written with meticulous

the idea of ‘Dharmam Sarnam Gachami’

care—and what pride !) informing us—who
hardly ever use it, for, no bus is run when We

Dear Sir,

most need

it—of the

cancellation of one

‘ scheduled trip ’ or the other. No reasons
are given—they never are—in this darned
hole !

Sometimes the driver is on sick—leave.
Probably he feels like cutting, too. But, of
course, it is preposterous even to entertain the

thought of having tow drivers (the idea ! l), or
some substitute arrangement. Logical consequence—let not the bus run, and a notice
(for which there always is some place reserved

on the board) to that eﬁect.
Finally (I) we now have two buses. It was
bad enough trying to run one bus smoothly
(without cancellations of scheduled trips). It
will be fun to watch their frantic efforts to
stave off confusion and chaos with two !
Yours etc.,
P.M.
ARTIST SAHA
Dear Editor,

The Sketch accompanying the story titled
‘His last War’ was really a very imaginative
one. It brings to the reader the enlightening
theme of the story i.e. the catastrophe of a
war. The calm and steady image of Buddha

depicting Peace alongside with that of a
ﬁghting soldier representing war gives the
reader a very clear idea of the story.
Through this column of yours, may I ex-

we always appreciate
your worthy suggestions

tend my warmest appreciations for such a
praiseworthy effort by the enterprising artist
‘Saha’.
Yours etc.

% e%z///7 gave/464mm!

He said the name of some sweet preparation.
My friend immediately commented that the
for a loog time—for the past some weeks, if
not months. Neither could we see any

When every-day our national leaders are
inspiring the public through their speeches,

Yours etc.

I have forgotten the nomenclature—and it
was sweet, of course—not his utterance!

——-V.S.

The shuttle service of the Institute Omnibus
is as good as non—existent. Not a day has

R. C. PAHUJA.

right, what’s it that you have P’
The smiling server uttered some name—

same item of sweet was seen in the show case

the pen of the writer. It is not the time for
‘ Budhham Sarnam Gachami ’ but our motto
at present should be, ‘ Yudhham Sarnam
Gachami’.

Gachami ’. I might tell Mr. Kripanarayan
that if we go to Budhham Sarnam now, our
courtesy will have to go ‘ Chinese Sarnam’.
It would be far far better for the ‘ Campastimes ‘ to close down rather than ﬁlling
the pages with articles which don’t recognise
the ‘ Signal of Time ’.

“That too is over, Sir.”
“You don’t have what we want—all

summer he tears them, in winter he burns.’

when even the girls are determined to sacriﬁce their lives for their motherland, the voice
of ‘ Budhham Sarnarn Gachami ’, comes from

seems to be quite absurd and foolish. Our
motto
should
be,
‘ Kai-mam
Sarnam

kuruma,

ADMIRER.

the dislocation thereof! They were safe in
the show case—let them live long! We did
not naturally opt for it as we had apprehensions of certain contagious diseases embracing
(Continued on page 10)
NATIONAL INTEGRATION
AND THE SQUARE DANCE
Dear Sir,

Mr. T. S. Ananthu’s article on ‘ National
Integration’, is not only a timely one, but
also gives us an insight into the narrow
minds. As the author says, it should be
nipped in the bud. But before doing so, it
would be better to ﬁnd the cause for this.
Why should such a tendency exist? It is
not so incompatible in case of uneducated
people, who are lulled by the glowing eloquence of some politicians, who preach this,

as against the educated personalities, who
have a mind to think and all the education to reason out. Can there be smoke
without ﬁre? There must be some loophole
in the attitude of the Government some
way, which should be detected and corrected.
Instead to nip it in the bud, if hasty
measures are adopted, it would only be
aggravating the tendency which as it is, is
causing enough nuisance. An unwanted, and
undesirable thing is best removed, if it is
traced to the very root and then removed
by correct measures.
Hats off to the genius, who made square
Dance—-r. Very few understood the nice
trick of isolating that column, where you
could put ‘Inder’ or ‘ Bajaj ’, as the case
may be, for you to announce the result and
feel sorry that nobody was clever enough
to go to U.S.A.
Yours truly,

K. V. RANGASWAMI.

