CAMPASTIMES
years ago. I felt certain that this was not
the village that I had left when I had been ﬁve

THE QUEST
The evening was gradually creeping in as
I walked along the dust-free and quiet road.
The whole country-side seemed to be bathed
in a kind of lull and freshness, I was

years old.

different. I remembered clearly that it had a
little red hut in the centre in which sat an old
hermit whom we used to call ‘Dadaji’. The

roads unlike those of this village had been
rough and oh, how well I remember the parti-

distance of almost over twenty-ﬁve miles.

cular smell of the place. But above all these,

Now that the evening was closing in I
decided to call it a day. All the same I
could not help feeling a kind of discouragement, for upto now I had not found the
slightest clue for what I had been searching.

old age town that somehow had lost pace

almost childish images of the village is the
remembrance of the happy and the carefree
days that I spent in the ﬁelds, of the joyous
hours that I passed trying to entertain my
little sister who had been born just a year
ago. And then there was the memory of my
dear and beloved parents. Oh, it’s too painfula memory. I beg you to spare me the
ordeal of trying to go over it all over again.

with the modern age.

I appeal to those who through some unfortu-

It almost reminded me

of the picture I had seen about the lost town
Brigadoon in Scotland. I followed the

nate accident of nature have lost the very
things that make life worth living, but I

workers, most of whom were women.

appeal specially to those whose parents have
been snatched away. Yes and, as these thoughts

How—

ever, when I hesitantly approached them to
ask for some direction they hurried away
without answering me.
Now that I was entering the village proper, the strange sense of antiquity came back
with a renewed vigour. The streets unlike
many of the village streets I have seen, were
remarkably clean and lined with thatchedroof houses. In the centre of what looked
like the village square stood a tamarind tree
whose fruit seemed dry with age. The
ground felt unusually hot and on observing
more closely I saw that it was made of
special square bricks. The strange quietness
of the place made me feel as though I was
in some dreamworld !
By now I was aware of a large number of
eyes peering at me. I felt awkward like a
man who is accused of some crime before
the court. A little towards the left of the
tree sat a barber. He had no customers on
hand and was watching me idly as I strolled
upto to him. ‘ Could you tell me, ’ I asked,
‘ where I can ﬁnd lodging for the night 3 ’
For sometime he did not answer and I could
feel a deep silence suddenly descend upon
the village. The barber gazed at me stupe—
ﬁed not knowing What to say and gazing in
all possible directions as though to seek some
comfort from the silent watchers. Finally he
deigned to reply, ‘ You must go to Ali
Baba’s.’
‘ And where am I to ﬁnd this Ali Baba’s
inn P ’ I asked rather amused at the name.

Once again the barber looked worried but
replied soon, ‘Just walk along straight til1
you come to a grave and then turn to your
left.’ He ,paused, looked around and then

came ﬂuttering back to my mind, I knew
that I would never see my village again.
By nowI had reached the grave and mere
curiosity made me read the epitaph. It read,

‘The Brother.’ The words caught me unawares. It seemed strange that a two—word
epitaph shOuld be at this place. Moreover the
headstone contained neither date of birth nor
the date of death.

Only two words were

engraved on the headstone.
The houses in this area looked deserted
and they were situated quite far apart from
each other. The house that I was heading for
was a low mud structure, but in spite of its
old air it looked very spick and span as
though it had been looked after by some
capable persons. I walked upto the door and
knocked. There was no reply. I knocked
again and turned to admire the ﬂowers. All
of a sudden I felt someone gazing at me.
I turned around and was confronted by an
old but cheerful looking man. So silently had
he come that I had hardly heard the door open,
‘Ali Baba, I presume ?’ I asked.
‘Yes,’ he said plainly and I thought I could
detect_a slight twinkle in the corner of the eye_
I brieﬂy explained to him my position and
asked him if he could afford to let me in for the
night. He thought for a while and then replied,
‘Alas, my business days are over. But since
you have come to my door, I cannot just
turn you back. The charge will be eight rupees
together with the food,’ he said. I certainly
thought that he Was asking for a little too
much, but since there did not seem to be any
other accommodation in the village, I decided

said, ‘ The ﬁrst house is the inn.’

to pitch in. But above all I liked the old
man right from the ﬁrst moment I saw him

I left my friend still gazing at me and
decided to make the necessary preparations

would be useful.

for the night.

in, he shouted across the room.

As I walked along the streets,

I saw men and women come out of their
homes and stare at me. Some of the children
Watched from behind their mothers’ saris.
I looked at myself to make sure that nothing

was wrong with my physical appearance.

and somehow I had the feeling that he

As he told me to come

‘ Farida we will have a guest for dinner.’
Turning around he smiled at me and conducted me to my room telling me that I was
expected to join him at dinner in another

No, there was nothing wrong there, only

hour’s time.

I was a bit dusty. But I didn’t think that
it would be worth staring at. The only
other possibility left was that these people
were not used to outsiders. I seriously hegan to consider whether I had chosen the
wrong village as my camp.
I was just about in sight of the grave now

enough time, and so I set about bathing
leisurely and thought perhaps I would take a
nap before dinner. But I decided not to risk
it. I didn’t want to create a bad impression

when I heard someone running hard behind

me. I spurred around (truly speaking the
staring had made me rather nervous) but to
my surprise found that it was only my friend
the barber.
‘Excuse me, Sahib,’ he said rather em-

barrassed,

He had given me more than

on the inn-keeper.

We had the dinner in a small, well-kept
room. The food was laid out on the table
before us and as I entered the old man broke

into smiles. I saw plainly that he was eager
to talk, but only modesty held him back. As
the meal progressed, even that barrier was
lifted and soon he was talking freely as if he
had known me as an old friend. Then there
was an unexpected pause and in order to

‘ have you visited this village

continue the conversation I remarked that the
food was excellently prepared. Again he

‘ No,’ I said trying to sound rather sure
but, to be honest, I was beginning to doubt
myself. The barber apologised and hurried
back to the square. The remaining distance to
the grave I walked very slowly. Athousand
and one memories rushed into my mind.
I hope you will admit that it is hard to re—
call that which has taken place twenty-three

broke into a grin and said proudly, ‘ Yes,
that’s my daughter’s cooking.’

before i‘ ’

of making an inn. And in those days he made
quite a handsome proﬁt.

They paid well I

My village had been very much

rather pleased with the progress I had made
that day. I had been able to hitch—hike a

I felt a queer sensation as I entered the
village. I felt that I was stepping into an

[December |5th. I962

Throughout the rest of the meal Ali Baba
was a very good conversationist and he remarked almost sadly how very few strangers
passed that way, but how during the
British rule the place had seemed teeming
with men and it was then that he had thought

We were just talking abut the British Raj
when his daughter came in with the hooks.
For a moment I was struck. She was a neatly
dressed woman of about twenty-six. Her
hair was tied in a small bundle at the back in
the 1ndian fashion. But what struck me,
was her face. There was something familiar

and yet something undeﬁnable in the face.
Wait nowl I had seen that face somewhere. Where, I could not remember.
She, too, paused an instant, stared at me
and then began cleaning the dinner table.
I watched with her eager eyes trying hard to

think whom she resembled.

But my mind

seemed to fail me and was in a turmoil.

Queer possibilities presented themselves before
me in that instant.

But I cast them out as

being ridiculous if not stupid.
Her father was looking at me with interest
and when she had left the room he gave a
piteous sigh. I didn’t know just how to inter-

pret 1t.
‘ My poor girl,’ he said, ‘ to think of her
wasting away her youth. ’
At ﬁrst I did not say anything thinking that
he would consider me an inquisitive man. But

my Curiosity. got theupper hand and I meekly
asked about her. Ali Baba didn’t say anything
for a few moments, but looked at me as though
he was trying to ﬁnd my real worth and
whetherI could be trusted with the secret. He
sounded very far off when he ﬁnally began to
speak. As he spoke his voice seemed to
change into a strange remote sounding one.

‘ The girl is my adopted child,’ he said and
looked at me to see the reaction it had produced. At this sentence my curiosity was fully
aroused and I asked him to continue. ‘ One
day soon after the tragic earthquake in 1934.,
I was walking along the ﬁelds when I sudden-

ly heard a faint weeping in the distance. I
quickly hurried to that place and can you
guess what I saw? It was the most piteous
scene I had ever seen. in all my long life.
There on the ground underneath a tree lay
a young girl about four years old clasping a
dead baby, shaking it as though trying to wake
it up from sleep. But the baby was dead.
The small girl herself almost half as dead. I
picked up both of them and rushed home.
And even as I rushed I could hear her weeping
‘ Munna Bhai, Munna Bhai.’

‘ By the time I had reached home the girl had
fainted. I called the doctor, and it was only
due to his opportune arrival that she managed to Survive. The child I buried outside
and that’s the grave you saw when you came
in. It was obvious that the child was from
the neighbouring village which had disappeared during theearth-quake. But who she was,
none of us were able to know. For many
days she hung between life and death, neither
speaking nor eating much. Believe me it was
a tremendous relief when after three weeks
she began to show signs of recovery.
‘ As soon as she could talk well enough I
asked her who she was and from which village
she had come. She said that she did not
remember anything. She had even forgotten
her name. She, however, vaguely managed
to remember that the village she had come
from was called something like Sutwari. I
didn’t know what to make of it. Because the
two villages near our house were called Kotu
wari and Putwari. I had never heard of
Sutwari, but I guessed she meant one of
those two villages, however, I could never ﬁnd
out which one.’
Ali Baba looked at me as he ﬁnished his
tale. He could plainly see that I was excited.
‘ Good God,’ I said ‘ For goodness sake, call
that girl 1 Please call her at once,’ I almost
shouted out.

‘ Sit down,’ said Ali Baba clearly disturbed
at seeing my anxiety. ‘ She won’t be here for
another half hour, she goes out for her walk
after dinner.’
I was too excited to sit down and kept
pacing the room. Finally, I turned to ask
(Continued on page 8)

