8

CAMPASTIMES

[December I5th, I962

might not be ours! Have we not dinned it

(Mara .A/e ﬂa/

The Quest—(Continued from page 6)

sufﬁciently in his ears that the ﬁnal victory

cannot but be ours? And still he advances.
What more does he expect us to say .P
‘Take heed, Sir Enemy, you may drive
too far. We can be patient. We are patient.
We are long-suffering. But don’t depend on
that benevolent streak in our nature for
pardoning your excesses. You are up against
you know not what. A mouse played once
with the liou . . . Y0u know the rest. When

Ali Baba something, but found that he was
asleep. I must have been walking up and
down for a long time. A deep, almost scared, silence had descended upon the village
and more deeply on the house. I sank on

you see us allowing you a few victories so

helping to recall what had happened twentythree years ago.

Let us rise.
Let us rise with arms.

that your sense of vanity may be gratiﬁed,
you see the patient wisdom of a big brother
who allows the little one to jump on his

Yellow feet have deﬁled

toes.

Sindﬂur Mad/29a
.7625,
I
‘ Maa ne Aaj Phir,
Apni Maang Ke Liye,
Sindur Maanga hai.’

The radiant face
Of Mother.

Her purple features have lost

jumps on the toes of the little one? If you

haven’t thought about it yet, please do think
about it ﬁrst, and you’ll surely realize the
folly of your violence.

With our blood.
The sound of beatings drums,
The thunder of howling guns,
is calling you,
to the ﬁeld.
Rise, Rise like the mighty arm
of Hercules.
And crush the ‘ yellow fever ’,

realize your folly you can always ask us to
explain. Ours is a nation of philosophers. We
have always prided ourselves on our wisdom
and way of teaching the abstruse sciences.
Doubt not that you will get the fullest beneﬁts
of our educational systems. We can fully
convince you that all your victories are
chimerical. They are mere optical, acousti—

Mother is thirsty.
Shed the blood.
of invaders,
Quench her thirst.

II
Maa ne aaj phir,
Apni Maang ke liye,
Sindur Maanga hai.
Let every son rise,
To defend the Mother,

Let every arm strike,
To crush the invader.
She is calling us,
Let her not call again,
For

Every groan ‘ She ’ utters
Is a shame,
On our name.
Let us Rise,

And give her back,
Her radiant face.
Maa Apni Maang ke liye,
Sindur Maang chunki hai.
Let us give it.
Or,

She may not ask again.
R. S. SEHGAL.

THE PATRIOT’S
OUTCR Y
‘ And shall I keep quiet while others do

my natural oﬂice? Let me ask you, who is
more suited to rant about the glory of the
Motherland, the idlest of the crowd or the

ablest? Able-bodied and active spirits have
other opportunities: they can ﬁght and drive
the Enemy within the land; but the likes of

cal,

electromagnetic,

If you still don’t

atomic

and

modern

illusious. You think you have won the
battles. You think you have invaded the
inviolable sanctum of our sacred Motherland. This is what you think. Have you
ever wondered what we think? Not you,

with

your characteristic

dullness.

Listen

then to what we think. We have it in our
ancient scriptures, that were extant even
before the dawn of civilization, itself, that
what seems is not, and what is not is.

The trance of the last half

hour passed and I remembered everything
with a surprising clarity.
I remembered the small rebellion that was
the cause of all my misery in the years to
come. Our landlord in conspiracy with some
Rajahs had revolted against the British Raj.
But soon when things had become calm
again, the British had ﬁned a very heavy
amount together with two children from the
village. This they had d0ne in the hope that
he might be kept in check by the people who
had to give up their children. One night I
had heard my father telling my mother that
the landlord had demanded one of his children, and that it was necessary for them to

surrender one of us if they ever hoped to
survive. There was no chance of complainingagainst the landlord, because he had threatened him with death for him and his family.
Father had ended off, ‘ Anyway we will have
to ask him. Only when he agrees can we send
him.’
The next morning my father called me and

asked me if I wanted an English education.
I was thrilled at the idea and without knowing
what lay ahead, I agreed to go.

My father

assured me that he would write to me continually and would let me know when I could

we have not w0n the battles: therefore, we

came, I wept as I had never done before. I
had one last look at my baby sister Gulabi
who was just about a year old then. So
fond of her bad I grown in the past few

have won them. Could anything be simpler P
‘ We hope, Sir Enemy, you will hearken
to such profound and ancient wisdom.
Should this also fail to convince you of your
madness, let me warm you that we shall be
forced to take recourse to violence. Do not
think only you can ﬁght. We are patient,
it is true. But we can also be impatient,
Beware our impatience. The dog’s bark

come home.

When the day of

departure

months that leaving her seemed the hardest
thing to do. The memories of Nargis and
the childish promises I had made to her are

is much worse than our bark. We will ﬁght
you tooth and nail; we will ﬁght you ﬁst

still fresh within me.
But I do confess that behind all this sorrow
there was a deep sense of pride. Having an
English education in those days was an undreamt of thing, specially for a poor village
boy like me. My head was swimming high

and fangs;

fair means and foul are alike

in the air as I walked out with my father, for I

to us when we are roused and see red. We
will scratch you, slap you and tickle you.
Do not be surprised if we pull your hair.
Anything is permitted, anything is fair when
the freedom of the Mother is in jeopardy.
‘ We will continue our warning right after
I haVe a coke to moisten my throat.’
(Report has it that at this stage the eifect
of the patriots’ tirade was so great that the
Enemy ran till he was safe beyond the
borders of his own country.)
P. MOHAN.

was aware that several boys were watching me.

was worse than his bite.

Our bite, however,

Then my memory becomes vague. I only
know that I was sent down to Calcutta for
my education and that the English gentlemen
under whose care I was, was exceptionally
kind to me. As the years rolled by, I began
to consider him as my second father. As the
years rolled by I developed a liking for the
surroundings and I enjoyed the studies. The
books seemed so fascinating and contained

such a vast store of knowledge.
Then came the terrible and dreadful year
1934. The fearsome earthquake hit India.
PeOple all over the country, especially those

me, that are by Nature endowed with no
slaves to the rile addiction of idleness, our

of Bihar panicked.

only solace is shouting. Let me do my
natural oﬁice then, I repeat! leave this poor
glory to me, you men of valour. Your turn
will come when the Enemy has sufﬁciently

One day my guardian

called me to his study and told me that
several villages in Bihar had been completely obliterated from the map. A sickly
feeling crept into my heart and my face grew
pale. I guess the kind gentleman saw what I

Then you can prove your prowess

by the might of your daughty arm and the
nimbleness of your ﬂighty feet. This job of
preaching and screeching I am better ﬁt to do.
‘ Ah, how shall I describe the anguish
that makes my every hair stand on end,
when I hear of the vile outrages the Enemy
has dared to commit on the person of our
holy Motherland? How shall I describe the
bitter grief that sends a shiver through every
mil of my epidermis as I hear that the

was thinking of, and he quickly said as yet

Enemy ruthlessly, heartlessly, mercilessly ad—

vances, and refuses obstinately to retreat!
Why won’t he be reasonable? Surely, he
cannot be such a fool as not to realize that
the ﬁnal victory is ours. Could he be a
little deaf? He should have prepared himself
against such an emergency. Why has he
left his hearing-aid at hOmeP Perhaps he
thought, the fool, that the ﬁnal victory

remembered the by gone days more clearly
than ever. It seemed some divine power was

That’s the philosophy behind the whole
thing. It seems that you have won the
battles: therefore, you have not won them;

gifts of the spirit or the body, and who are

advanced.

Gradually

things began to appear more clearly and I

Have you ever thought, little Enemy,

what it will be like when the big brother

Their radiance,
Let us re—empurple them

wipe it out.

the chair and began thinking.

.5me 9‘0 I “TNT
Em Sm. INTI/N559...
an New 1' m cal:

he didn’t know the names of the villages and
that he would let me know the following day.
You can imagine the anxiety that I felt the
whole of that day and the next. I could
neither eat nor sleep. There was nothing
I could do except wait with feverish
anxiety. The next day I didn’t go to school
and waited for my guardian to come back from
his ofﬁce. Finally he arrived and from his
dreadful faceI knew that he had something
fearful to tell me. Suddenly I lost all courage
and didn’t dare ask him what had happened
to my village. Towards the end of the day
he called me and said, ‘ Well, young boy, you
know, so far three villages have been
(Continued on page 9)

