9

CAMPASTlMES

December l5t'n, I962]
The Quest—(Continued from page 8)
exterminatcd,’ he paused and looked at me
hesitantly.

‘I am afraid, Kotwari is among

the three.’

At these words I felt very weak

speak. -Ispoke as gently as I could urging

mystery of her escape from the jaws of death

her as
name.
certain
sudden

still remains hidden in her.

softly as 1 could to remember her
Then asl looked into her face, I felt
who she was. The revelation was so
that I sat staring at her with new eyes.

and started weeping aloud, crying out for my

She was my uncle Hanif’s eldest daughter.

parents. The gentleman came over and sat
beside me and tried to console me saying that
there was some chance that Several people

I remembered how she and Gulabi had been

S. BUKHT.

The Innocents—(Continued from page 7)

the best of friends when young. Yes, it must

government with ﬁery zeal, wished that his

me she.

He told me how two

‘ Sultana,’ I said mustering up all the soft-

days after the terrible accident a little girl
had been found in the ﬁelds by one of the

As soon as I

nation had a government of whith he Could
be proud. But alas ! His father had told him
much of the shameful ways of the Chinese

breathed her name, a strange light came into

government, of its complete disregard for the

would have survived.

farmers.
His words cheered me a little, and for the
next few days I waited for more news. But the
days passed into months, months into years

and yet no news. Still I refused to believe that
they were dead. It just couldn’t be. From
then on lresolved that I would hunt down

every village in the North till I had deﬁnite
news about my parents and about Kotwari.
The years following the terrible incident
were one long nightmare. I did everything

with that one resolution continously in my
mind. I must ﬁnd my parents. After passing
the BA. I applied for the I.C.S. and by
God’s grace I got selected. The training
period was over and I was posted in the
South as an Assistant Collector. Through
two years I laboured and collected enough
so that I could take a year’s holiday
and set out to complete the task that
I had so long resolved to do. . . . . . . . .
And
here
I
was almost
at
the

end of my plans with no more comforting
news except that all the villagers of Kotwari
had perished in that terrible accident. I
didn’t feel satisﬁed and I thought that there

was something missing somewhere.

ness of voice I possessed.
her eyes.

Then I knew that if there was any

hope of ﬁnding the girl's identity it was now.
‘ Sultana,’ I continued, ‘ dont you remem-

ber your father I-lanif. Think Sultana think.’
I concluded. She again seemed to withdraw
into the past and then suddenly cried aloud,
‘ Mother, mother,’ Her voice suddenly
cracked in the second, ‘ mother ’ and again

inability to describe what [felt at that moment.
God did not seem as cruel as he had appeared

my brother keeps telling everyone that just

a moment before.

But above all there was

that supreme feeling of family pride, that feeling which those who have the misfortune to
be alone in this world have never tasted. I
felt a strange sense of relation that in this vast

world where previously there had been none
of my kin, in a remote village almost forgotten by all mankind dwelt one of my own
kin, SOmeone of my own blood.

After a week when

Sultana had fully

Besides I love this place too much.

I said

looked into her face. Her eyes were full of
unknown fear. I felt so sorry for her that

I released my grasp. It was suddenly borne
in upon me that she was my sister. . . my
long lost sister Gulabi.
‘Gulabi,’ I said softly trying to sound as I

had done whenI was ﬁve years old and had
played about with my sister. I looked
anxiously into her face, but it gave no sign
of recognition. It simply remained blank.
‘ Gulabi,’ I said trying to sound still more

gentle, ‘DOn’t you
brother, Az’iz.’

remember

your own

Still her face remained ex-

pressionless, but her eyes became thoughtful
as though she was trying to recollect some-

thing from the past.

‘Your brother, Aziz,

has come back to you, Gulabi,’ I said almost breaking down into tears and I drew

because many famous Chinese came to India
in the olden days and just because we were
once gcod friends, we must not keep remembering that, we must now forget all that and
only haVe hate for your people because they

have tried to take our land.’
‘But it is not the people who are doing it !
It is Only the bad Government.’
‘What my brother says is, whoever it is,
the Chinese are the Chinese. We have been
remembering Our past friendship. He got
very angry when my father called him a fool
and told him not to lose his perspective or
something.’
Right through the entire discourse, Ling
and Meena sat with open mouths avidly

arms.

‘Just a minute Ali Baba,’

But

attacked by the Chinese.

to persuade him to come, but he shook his
head and said, ‘ I can never live in a city. . . .

doing.

‘Yes, that is what my Pop also says.

recovered, Itold Ali Baba that I would be

hooka from the inn-keeper’s mouth. I sprang
to my feet and at once' grabbed her delicate

impatiently. Thenl looked at the girl and

It was, therefore, that Li could say a little to

but’——here his voice choked with emotion—
‘Our government wants only to make war.’

agreed whole-heartedly and even helped me
to make some plans about her future. I tried

I-Ier screams woke the old man up.

bestial methods

True, I did not feel the happiness that I

I knew then for surety that the girl was
my uncle’s daughter.

ruminating over the past, when suddenly I

He gaped at me and demanded what Iwas

of the

would have felt had I seen my own parents.
But even then my joy was great. I confess my

she fainted away.

woke to the sense of the painful present. I
saw the girl come in and take away the

for how long I sat there

individual,

Sunder by way of reply, but at least he
could defend his people.
‘My father says that we Chinese are very
hard-working and also very brave when there
is no food in the land because of rain and
storm and things. He says that the Chinese
people want to be friends with everyone

leaving with her in a day or two. At ﬁrst he
wasn’t very cheerful about that, but then he

I don’t know

human

which characterised most of its actions and
other sundry reasons which had caused him to
leave China and earn his livelihood elsewhere.

After all

I have lived here for the past seventy years.’
Some how the whole village had come to
know about the incident and many of them
came to wish Sultana good-bye.

Some of the

So it is no use

drinking in everything that had been said.
Much of it they did not understand on the
other hand there was much that they did.

The

two boys felt very important and

solemnly shook hands.

men spoke to her and exclaimed how unpredic—
table the workings of the Almighty were.

‘But inspite of everything I shall always
play with your sister, Li.’

Finally, the day arrived for the departure

‘Same here,’ Li’s imitation of his seniors
was comic, but at the same time it rang with
deep sincerity.

and as I walked out of the inn to the bullOCkcart that I had hired, I stopped before the

grave.

Sultana stopped, too.

And then I

know not why she went and kissed the stone.
‘ Gulabi’s brother,’ she said almost to herself.
I stared at her and then at the stone. For a

a few moments I just kept on staring. Then
slowly, as though in a painful manner I read
again ‘ The Brother.’ ‘ Sahib, its getting late“
said the cart—driver.

My eyes were suddenly ﬂooded with tears
and moving towards the cart slowly, I said,
‘ Good-by, my brother.’

‘I

dont think Sultana understood the

‘And I love you, Ling.’
'Same here’ Ling had a sharp ear for new
expressrons.
,
.
Soon one day Meena learnt that Mr. Sao
and his entire family were leaving for Canton
in China. Many vere the plans that Ling
and Meena jointly made as to what the for-

mer would do and what she would bring
back from the trip. Sunder, a curious boy
by nature had tried to ﬁnd why they were
going at that time.
But outside of the vague answer given by

signiﬁcace of the last act, for she stared at me

Mrs. Sao he could not gather

Little did he know of Mr. and Mrs. Sao’s

stared hard into her face. Yes, I felt sure
I had known that face in my childhood.

blankly.
As soon as Sultana had settled down in her
new home I took her to a psychiatrist. After

She ﬁnally made an effort to speak, but no—

he had talked to her for several hours, he

thing came out of her mouth, then suddenly
a faint voice seemed to come from the past.
‘ Aziz P ’ she looked at me surprised and then

called me and said how d ﬁicult it had been
to make her talk. ‘ Its obvious,’ he said, ‘ that
she has passed through such a ghastly scene
that she hates to recall it.’ When I told him

her near me. Then her pale lips began
quivering. I drew her closer to me and

said, ‘ ‘ Sikhi ’ Gulabi . . . back where ......

no, no dead.’ Then she fainted in my arms.
In those few words all the hope of the

about the earthquake he said, ‘ Probably she

‘ God why ? Why I ask you ? ’ Ali Baba had
remained silent till all this time and put his
arms around both of us and consoled me. At
his suggestion, for I was still holding on to the

was out in the ﬁelds when the whole thing
happened. It must have terriﬁed her so much
that she does not want to speak about it.’
Then as I was walking back home with
Sultana the whole thing ﬂashed upon me in a
secoud. Gulabi, my baby brother and she
must have been playing out in the ﬁelds when
the earth-quake struck the village. The

unknown girl,I laid her down on All Baba’s bed

children must have been mad with fear. They

and then waited for her to regain consciousness.
watching the pale face that lay on the large

must have run all over the place before the
deep ﬁssures swallowed my Gulabi. Sultana,
on the other hand, had managed to escape with

pillow.

my little brother and run from that horrid

past years were shattered.

I felt sick with

sorrow and holding her began weeping. ‘ Oh
God,’ I cried half knowing what I said.

I was no longer crying now but silently
All of a sudden a strange urge seized

me and I wanted to know who that girl was.

scene.

Hunger must have soon smitten the

Presently she moved her eyelashes and
with that movement my hope came back with
a new vigour. Gradually her eyes opened
and I wanted speak to her, but Ali Baba
restrained me saying that she was still weak
from the shock. Finally, he allowed me to

children,

anything.

anxious brothers and sisters whose very life

and future depended on Mr. Sao’s positive
response to the injunctions issued from
Peking.

Before parting, Meena had asked Ling
when they would all return and the latter
had given the time as one week. At least,
that was what Ling’s mother had said.
Time passed. One day Meena, alone in
her room was; wrestling with a problem that
had long piqued her. She and Ling had
made a dolly. Meena had insisted that green
beads should be used for the eyes, whereas

Ling had been adamant on using black beads.
When they had parted the question was still
undecided.

As she was thinking about this, her eyelids
became heavy, but just: as she was about to
drift into sleep, she heard her father’s voice
as it ﬂoated into the room, saying something

about a Mr. Sao; Meena sat up and listened
intently. She heard her father tell her

brother died,

mother that a Mr. Sao and his entire family

Sultana still managed to survive.
A few years later Sultana got married to a

including one son and daughter had been
brutally massacred while trying to make an
unsuccessful attempt at crossing into Hong-

and,

whereas,

my

lawyer and is now able to pursue the normal life
of a woman..But even now she does not
remember anything of the horrid day. The

(Continued on page 11)

