FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY

Own/0ast/mas
Vol. I, No. 2

IIT Madras, I 5th September, I962

THOSE GOOD OLD
DAYS

géaa ﬁaaéa
This now is our second issue of Campastimes,

yes, ‘ our ’ issue and, unfortunately, still not
‘yours ’ I We had thought it was sufﬁcient

My dear Juniors,

that word went round, IIT Madras were to
publish its own newspaper.
‘A monthly,
bah I ’ So what 2 It’s still a newspaper, isn’t
it? And with some sort of a future, we hope.
But hope is all we can at present, because

The experiences of myself and my one
hundred and twenty-nine classmates (the
second Batch to be admitted to I.I.T.) when we

did not have the pleasure of your company is
something which you have all so badly missed.
I shall not be egotistic enough to relate all

it’s only a matter of a very short time that
the handful of those who make Campastimes
now, will leave the Institute with ‘ B.Tech.’

those incidents which were personal in nature,
but shall conﬁne myself to those of them
which all my classmates had the opportunity
to come across. This shall, I am sure, make
interesting reading to the present Ist and
2nd Year students.
To say the truth, I had not been aware of
the existence of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, until one month prior to the
date when the Institute was unfortunate
enough to admit me. I was more than sur—
prised to see the newspapers carrying an
advertisement entitled ‘ Admission to the
I.I.T., Madras '. I was thena resident of
Madras, and never having heard of such an
Institution, was inclined to regard it a hoax.
However, to satisfy my conscience, I replied
to the

advertisement, and was

taken aback

when I received an interview card.
Gentlemen, you must have heard of sons

being under the care of the father or the
mother, or some disabled men being under
the care of a hospital, or, if you stretch your

imagination too far, of some husbands being
under the care of their Wives. But ever
heard of an educational institution ‘under
the care of ’ another one ? I hope you will
not refuse to believe me if I tell you that

our great Institute was at that time under the
care of the A. C. College. of Technology.
The above fact was mentioned in bold
letters on my interview card, and that was

about the only indication I had regarding the

written all over their front and back. And then
All roads lead to (de) fence

(See page 3)

l5ths AND 26ths
R. PRABHAKAR
Another mock-celebration is over~the ﬁfteenth Independence Day. All over the country
countless speeches were made with no force of
conviction behind them and these in turn were

heard by equally uninterested people who care
more for their own day-to-day affairs than for
nationalism—let alone internationalism. As
usual the younger generation was asked to be

Or do you want us to splash ‘Space Donated

forged for them in the form of heavy foreign
commitments. In the name of democratic
planning, not only the present generation is
put to untold hardships but also the hands of
future generations are being tied; bringing dis—

honour and loss of self—respect to the country
in the process.

January are said to be days of national rejoicing

tense.

So, let’s have a sample of what you know
besides B,Tech. After all, it’s ‘ your” news-

paper and not only ‘ ours ’.
Yours etc.
ﬂ;

ﬂ/éﬂ/aa.

<V/hp vSfMea

development of business discipline. Today our
businessman is notoriously dishonest, greedy
and unscrupulous. .The things he sells are
at the idea of improving the quality of his
product. What is more alarming is the public
apathy. A recent survey showed that food
adulteration was unimaginably rampant in the
country and that this was largely due to public
non-cooperation and ofﬁcial incompetence.
In the ﬁeld of Education, at the time when

the Leather Institute canteen and go back

other nations are advancing technologically by

home. I heard a lot of noise coming from
one room and concluded that that must be the
canteen. Imagine my surprise when, on entering it, I found written on a piece of cardboard,
‘The Indian Institute of Technology ’.
‘ This is an Institute of National Import-

leaps and bounds, our standard of education is

[ ﬂan5Zz‘mes

Co mﬂloseimes

WW
Birth of your “Camp”—“Pastimes”

(Continued on page 2)

Institute could be conducted in that single
room.

I asked all the clerks there, where the

hostel and classrooms were, but they seemed
embarrassed, and to a certain extent annoyed,

Institute of National Importance was one

by my questions.

single room with some clerks and a telephone.

know where the Hostel is .F ’ or ‘ You will be
told when and where the classes will be held ’
or ‘ All you have to do is to assemble here

It was rather difficult for me to imagine

Well, there you are.

far our public sector projects have shown little

195‘)-

that all the classes and other activities of the

all over six

but few seem to bother about the precarious
position we are in : our total begging of foreign
countries big and small is rapidly increasing; so

mostly of substandard quality and he laughs

I looked round, and all I could ﬁnd of this

by Tom, Dick 86 Harry, Ltd.’

pages? Hardly attractive, don’t you agree?

15th of August and 26th of

HUMAYUN’ KABIR ON 315: JULY,

ance,’ I overheard a big shot tell another.

Do you Want us to believe that there is not

one in I Year who has the ghost of a literary
vein P Or—are you, by any chance—shy P Oh,
come !

foreign debts with interest ; shackles are being

We have started large scale forced industrialisation without giving due importance to the

renowned name of I.I.T. But try as I might,
the only thing that came into my view was
the cactus plant growing to my left. Finally, I
gave up, and decided to have a cup of tea at '

and willing to contribute to Campastimes?

awaiting them—not that of future democratic
administration but of repaying the monstrous

prepared to shoulder the mighty responsibility

ground on which was written :a

glimpse of the huge buildings bearing the

there' are. no more than can be counted by the

Campastimes No. 2 has eight pages. Not
beCause~—-in spite of you! But how long do you
think can a few fellows ﬁll eight pages every
month without your contributions and suggestions E And—let’s not forget—your criticism?

proﬁts and many have been running on loss.
Let us remember that the more we are indebted
to others the more vulnerable we become to
their interference and ultimate occupation in
the event of East-West relations becoming

I looked about eagerly, hoping to have a

what? Well, that’s precisely what we keep
asking ourselves.
We know, not everyone of you is a writer
of sorts, not everyone is able to put his thoughts
on paper, not everyone is an artist. But do
you, in all seriousness, want us to believe that
ﬁngers of less than two hands who are capable

location of the Institute. The next day I
searched for it for two full hours in and around
the A. C. College, the College of Engineering
and the Central Leather Research Institute,
and was just beginning to think that the whole
thing was a big hoax when lo and behold ! I
saw a foundation stone coming up from the

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
MADRAS, INAUGURATED BY PROF.

l0 nP.

‘ Why do you want to

on the 16th of August (the reopening date).
We shall take care of the rest ’ were the only
answers that I received. I got the impression
that the location of the Institute was a top
secret, not to be divulged under any circumstances whatsoever. It was only when I paid
(Continued on page 2) g

