CAMPASTIMES
'Those Good Old Days
(Continued from page I)

[September l5th, I962

you, with no bus service or anything of that

tism is made evident by their still not coming

sort) and to buy any article we had to go to
Saidapet.

to a decision on this all-important question.
Gandhiji made this one of his 14, points—

my fees that one Clerk took pity on me and

The next morning the good old truck again

told me, ‘ You see that Deer Sanctuary over
there. Go in, and follow the main road—I
mean the main pathway (Yes, Juniors, it was
a pathway those days). After a distance of
about 3 miles, you will meet the hostel.’

arrived, and we were told that our classes
would be held in the A. C. College and the
Highways Workshop. So we underwent this
adventurous truck-ride four times a day‘plus

constructivc programme and was of the unshakeable opinion that this should be carried out

some rides between the A. C. College and the
Highways for changing class-rooms.

It was on this day that I met Mr. Siddhartha, the now renowned (or notorious?)

You may have been surprised, Juniors, to

character of our Institute. He gave me a
good dose of -his now frequent lectures,

ﬁnd that all of us possess cycles. The reason

and by the time I left him I was wonder—

ing what sort of people I would come across
in I.I.T. He warned me against visiting the
hostel, and told me I would be subjected to
ragging. Disregarding his advice I entered
the forest one day all alone.

I had gone a few yards inside, when the
pathway forked into two. I was wondering
which one to take when suddenly I heard
the bushes on my left move. I had just read
one of Jim Corbett’s books the previous night,
and‘my heart leapt to my mouth. I was
much relieved to ﬁnd that it was only a deer.

is that the truck service was stopped after
some days, and we were compelled to buy
cycles. And on them we went at least 12
miles a day—on all sorts of roads and in all
sorts of weather.

to those that will be lost on enforcing prohibition. In our capital the government has let

on lease a few shops from which it is deriving
a big amount. Even in the so-called dry areas,
it is only the poor distiller who is punished;
the rich carry on with reﬁned stuff.

This brings one to the core of the problem.

I would be doing great injustice if I forget
to mention the classrooms in the Highways
Where the 130 of us had joint classes. If you
enter the Highways, about one furlong from
the gate you will ﬁnd a tin shed on the
right. Not only the top, but also part of the
walls are made of tin. Friends, this was

once our classroom, in which the temperature

is not only not enough, but in matters of vital

never went below 105°F.

importance, leaders must act contrary to the
mass—opinion, if it does not commend itself to
their reason.” Today the uneducated masses

There was a rush

three benches, for otherwise you could neither

see the board nor hear the lecture.

the stillness of the air, the atmosphere of
a jungle and the absence of human beings,
I was fast losing my courage that I had,
and I had just decided to turn back, when
I came across a villager who oﬂered to take
me to my destination. The next three ,miles
of my journey is easily the most tedious

On the contrary, a few states have

Our leaders do not have the moral courage to
tell wrong doers that they are wrong. They
are ready to bow to mass-opinion in order to
retain their position. Gandhi tells us: “ Those
who claim to lead the masses must resolutely
refuse to be led by them, if we want to avoid
mob-law and desire ordered progress for the
country. I believe that mere protestation of
one’s opinion and surrender to the mass-opinion

and a scramble every day to get into the ﬁrst
After that, my mind was never quiet.
What with the buzzing sound of the trees,

at all costs.

openly refused to implement this and a few
others have laid the condition that the Centre
should make available to them funds equivalent

Under these circumstances, friends, you

will excuse us if some of us had dozed off in
some of the classes, especially when I tell you

that one day I was about to wake up the person
beside me who was fast asleep in Dr. Koch’s

are continuously deprived of what little they
possess—morally and materially by our ﬁlmindustry, horse—races etc. which should be
ruthlessly suppressed for their immoral impact
on the people and for their role in diverting
their energy from nation-building activities into

interesting class, but was prevented by a
friend who tugged at me and quipped, "No,

non»constructive channels.

reaching a village, my escort pointed his

don’t I

have been occupied by Red China and the

ﬁnger to the left and said, ‘There is your
Institute’.
My eyes followed his ﬁnger, but could see

so many interesting events, but all that we

trekking that I have ever done.

Finally, on

nothing.

In the next two years, we have come across
want you to learn by the method of practical
experience.

“Where P” I asked.
a
“That one” he said, pointing to what was
nothing more than a heap of bricks.
“That one P ” I echoed, staring in that
direction. I think I must have stood there stunned for quite a few minutes, for when I turned
round my escort was no longer there.

He is the Professor of Physics !”

Now tell me, Juniors, isn’t it better to suffer
little due to an Entrance Examination

and a bit of ragging (both of which we
escaped), than to undergo these terrible
experiences P
Yours seniorly,
T. S. ANANTHU.

On the 16th of August, the then Warden,

Thousands of square miles of our territory
Kashmir question is far from coming to a
solution. Internationally we are applying the
principle of non-violence (of the weak) and are
hoping against hope that good counsel will
ultimately prevail in our enemies’ camps;
whereas within the borders police and army
are freely used to crush strikes and opposition
moves. There have been too many killings
due to police ﬁrings and as a matter of fact
it is a common occurrence that two rival groups
ﬁght, resulting in a few people 'getting injured

and the police intervene resulting in a few
deaths. Hunting the Naga hostile as wild
animals on the principle that they are not

Dr. Chowdhry, offered to transport us from

15ths and 26ths—(C07ztinu2d from page 2)

amenable to reason also does not compare well

the Leather Institute to the Hostel. A huge
truck—of the type used for transport of heavy
luggage—came and halted before us. Into it

being slowly but steadily lowered: The Punjab

with our rather unwanted patience towards
aggressors ; on the contrary, it merely exposes
our ‘ non-Violence-if-you—are-stronger’ princi-

we were huddled, bag and baggage.

There

was a scramble to get in, and I fell down twice
before I could get a foothold, I saw a huge
plumpy ﬁgure trying to shove himself in (and
thus obstructing three others from doing so),
and it was only later on that I learnt that he

Government (as also some other State Govern-

ments) has directed technical and medical
institutions within the state to give ﬁrst preference to sportsmen by considerably relaxing the
minimum percentage of marks qualifying the
candidate for admission. The urge of a newly
independent nation to strain every nerve and

was Mr. Anand Singh Bawa (Excuse me,

strive to advance with the maximum amount

Editor !)
The truck started at last, and soon took a
turn to the left. All of us fell on one side,
and I can still remember myself trying with
all my energy to keep Mr. Bawa from putting
all his weight on me.
The truck entered the forest (what you call
the Campus, Juniors), and its front portion
seemed to go down. I was just beginning to
feel certain that it was puncture in the front
tyres when I felt the front half rise up again
and the lower half go down. Only then did I
realize that it was a ditch that we were passing.
I was just contemplating on the size of the
ditch, when people at the front shouted,
“Duck!” I didn’t know for what, and stared

of self-help is totally absent in our country.
Suddenly people have become patriotic (i.e.
narrowrnindcd) and have been ﬁred with the
love of regional languages with the result that
in many a State the at present inconsistent and
suicidal step of making the regional language
the university medium, is being contemplated.
There are many educational institutions—and
one or two universities—which are run by typi—

at them.

The branch of an over—hanging tree

precariously missed my head, and for once I
thanked God for having made me so short.

After half an hour of this grand journey, we '

cal businessmen and which should be nationalised without further delay, in the national
interest; government grants are freely given

to these undeserving institutions and are duly
misused.

The step to nationalise these may

Minister went to the extent of giving prior
warning that ‘ the opposition move to demon—
strate against new taxes will be crushed.’ Our
general elections are a crying disgrace to

democratic principles:

the ignorance and

illiteracy of our masses are fully exploited in
the manipulation of votes. Speaking on the

eve of the Independence Day our President
observed : ‘The recent elections showed that
the system of caste and feeling for groups—-

lingustic and communal—had not loosened its
hold on the masses of our people.’ The
unfortunate fact is that it is in the interest of

our politicians .that these disruptive inﬂuences
maintain their hold on the masses.

Let I 5ths and 26ths be days of honest soulsearching;

serving their near and dear by getting seats by
their inﬂuence; it is simply stunning to think
how low people holding very responsible
positions will stoop to satisfy their selﬁsh

relationship between ethics and politics and
put an end to the self-deception—due to the
impact of Western Civilization—that they are

let us realise the fundamental

poles apart.

interests.' Breath-taking instances may be cited
but are not, as the reactions will not be in the

form of remedial measures but suppression of

known as Krishna Hostel). It had made con-

This leads one to the present pitiable plight
of our Judiciary system. In spite of our

evidence.

boasting that law is within the reach of common

Why do you. . . .

man, it is an open secret that a respectable
citizen can never prove his point against an
inﬂuential top—man and that the rich are

. . . . feelfrustrated

I shall not go into the details of the water,
electricity, transport and other problems that

constantly evading the law in one form or

we faced. Sufﬁce to say that to post a letter

Coming to prohibition, the hollowness of
many of our leaders’ pro-independence patrio-

we had to go to the Leather Institute (mind

We are told we are governed by a democratic government but no evidence of tolerance
towards the Opposition is seen; a State Chief

not be welcome to many top-people who are

reached what was then known as Thararnani
Hostel (the completed form of which is now
siderable improvement since my last visit.
The bricks, which were scattered at that time,
were now so arranged as to form what some
people called rooms. And into them we went
—two in each.

ple.

other.

. . . . feel lonely

