September l5th, I962]

CAMPASTIMES

iitian cariCATures—Z
\A

-

n

l

0n Prayer

_

BY KRIPANARAYANAN

“An enclosure or barriers (e.g. a hedge,

wall, railing, etc.) along the boundary of any
When man like a rudderless boat was strugplace which it is desired to defend from
intruders," that’s how Messrs. Little, Fowler,
Coulson and Onions deﬁne fence in their

“ Shorter Oxford English Dictionary on Historical Principles ”. And, by Jove,
right! Are they? Well, I dunno.
gee defends himself against whom by
a fence—fence? hee, hee! Yessir,

they are
Who ec
erecting
fence !

Alright, fence—between the wings of Civil
Engineering? We against cows and goats? Cows
and goats against us? Saar, there will be
gaadenl I see. But you wait till the goats
have nibbled off that fence and the cows have
discovered that there’s a main entrance to

yonder pastures.

gling in the unfathomable oceans of Despon-

dency, when he was discarded and disowned
by his loyal friend's, when he was torn between
hisduty and his ideals, and when his mind

was wavering to come to a reasonable decision,
he found consolation in prayer. And on its
broad wings, his mind and body has soared
into resplendent regions of Providence, where
serenity and silence have evoked his noble

ideals.

As the straw to the drowning man,

is prayer to the man in adversity. A true,
sincere and elevating prayer is like a rainbow
to the storms of a man’s life. ‘Its like the
evening beam that smites the clouds of sorrow
away and tinges tomorrow with prophetic ray.’

The origin of prayer takes us back into the
ANAND SINGH BAWA

And then there are fences around the future
Staff Quarters, wooden

poles

and barbed-

wire. Now, who defends himself against
Anand Singh Bawa is a sardar (minus a
beard) hailing from Delhi.

His ponderous bulk rolling down the corridor is a potential menace to anyone coming
in his way. He has a characteristic swinging
walk (can be likened to an ocean liner in a
high sea) which is unmistakable, and if in the

dim light (of the evening of course since
Bawa is never abroad in the dim light of the
morning) you see a barrel approaching, you

can be sure it is Bawa in one of his lurid blue
‘lungis’. His timings : Week days—wake up

whom there P Staff against students P Students
against staff P Horticulturists against cows
and goats? Inhabitants against stray visitors?
Neighbours against neighbours I" Dogs inside
against dogs outside P Someone is said to
have detected a watch-tower under construction and become hysterical over the choice of
various foreign models of machine-guns (“But
the Nudelmann is so much easier to handle
and can be purchased on Rupee basis l ”) .To
his utter astonishment and relief, however, it
was found that the said contraption is to carry
water-tanks.

7 a.m. Attend 1st hr. of class if time permits.
Holidays :——Wake up II a.m. :—Breakfast~
cum lunch 12 noon :—Sleep again (Siesta) at
1 pm. :—Wake up 5 pm. :—Have tea—sleep

at 9 p.rn.
Bawa is a very useful inmate of Kaveri
Hostel. His scooter is an easy means of
transport and is more or less a public carrier.
I have seen it in use by others much more
than by him. Besides, he buys a large num-

dark periods of History, when the concept
of a power greater than himself was still in
a state of evolution. The possible causes
attributed to the origin of prayer are mainly
twofold. The death of any member of a

tribe aroused a sense of sympathy and bereavement which resulted in the people believing

in the power of a Superior Being.

Another

interesting idea which culminated in prayer
was the various facets of Nature and its
innumerable wonders.
As man emerged from the barbaric age
to that of a civilised one, the idea of a Being
on a par with themselves was present, and so,

their first mode of prayer was more or less a
command. The Zulus of uncivilised Africa
used to say ‘Help me or you will feed on
nettles.’ The primitive savages of Australia
prayed thus ‘Guide me aright or I shall
throw you to the dogs.’
Fear of punishment for immoral deeds done
on earth resulted in the people praying with
a zealous fervour. Sickness and diseases

were attributed to the anger of gods- and
goddesses and the ultimate impact of this on
society was a prayer due to Fear of a greater

power.

The next important stage in the

ber of magazines regularly, which again is

development of prayer was the transition from

very convenient for people in his wing.
Games and he are absolutely incompatible
but he throws his weight around considera-

fear to requests.

bly in the shot putt item.

Who against Whom P i E

He was the Student Editor of last year’s
Institute magazine and is now the Editor of

the Campastimes. Last year again he was the
Hostel Secretary of Kaveri Hostel, and his
sauvc, quiet manner got nothing done. His

‘ And then there is a fence between Raj
Bhavan Park and I.I.T., a solid concrete-poleand—wire—netting affair several feet high. You
haven’t seen it yet? Just take the “ road ” left
to the workshops, miss the bend, and you’ll run

most (only P) enviable quality is his coolness

right smack into it. Now, who defends himself

on all occasions.

against whom here ?

Raj Bhavan against us ?

He is a member of the boat club and has

We against Raj Bhavan? No, we against the
spotted deer. “The famished lion o’erleaps

managed to ﬁnd a boat which stands his

the fences of the nightly fold ”, says poet

bulk.

Dryden. Well, so far as we are concerned it’s
not the lion, but the spotted deer that o’erleaps

Unluckily for the horses he is also a

member of the Riding Club.

the fences, and day and night, at that. (SugBawa would, I think, have made an ideal
man for the Stone Age, since his two main
pursuits in life seem to be eating and sleep-

ing.

gestion: hire them tha animals as coaches for
the competitors of the next I.I.T. Intersports
high-jump.)
-

his food.)

Right now he afﬁrms, it comes in

crates.

mountains, the glorious Sun rising on the
horizon, and the young bud blossoming into
its lovely hues often makes us sense a special
kind of joy—an unknown feeling of happiness.
Such moments of silent contemplation of. the
many aspects of Nature will make us realise
the greatness of Providence, and in a way, fear
of a Power unseen yet perceived, untouched

but whose delicate touches beautify the very

(Bawa says he wouldn’t have liked it,

because he would have had to exert to get

Thus angry rebukes became

gentle requests. The belief that the favour
of a Superior could be won by entreaties
increased to a great extent. And as time
progressed, rituals along with religion made
a farce of prayer. It became justa recitation
of a few words and the idea of sacredness
and sanctity was introduced. ‘Mantras’ were
shelved for fear of losing its effectiveness.
The highest and perhaps the sincerest form
of prayer is silent adoration. In the still
solitude of bountiful Nature, a man often
ﬁnds himself elevated. The snow-capped

Folks, let’s move to the hostels where the
fenceless plains stretch unimpeded—before
they’ve put up a fence there, too.

creations of Nature will make us understand
the necessity of prayer.
Prayer is a powerless weapon without Faith.

D. J. NIRMAL.

Faith is the very basis of sincere devotion. It
implies complete conﬁdence in things or

M.V.R.

beings unseen by us and unless we have faith
in the Supreme One, prayer is devoid of all its
merits. History has recorded many instances
of successful prayer due to the invincible
Faith, they had in the Almighty.
‘Mira Bai’ won the heart of her lord

THOUGHTS IN A
COFFIN!

through sincere and ardent prayers. ‘Andal’
sang her way into the home of eternal happi-

But just a useless thought,
A process in the mind ;
With no matter and no form,

Now ! Now ! I’m lowered

Just a frenzied fretting thought;

Into a new dug grave
Still cannot you see I"

That you have known,
My most sacred wish.
And even that, shall die;
And even that, shall die;

Still cannot you feel?
My truest love,
My dearest wish

saved them. Even today this hymn ‘Lead
kindly light’ is revered, adored and sung as

As this my body has.

I can but beat the lid in vain;
And with What i

2

‘ ness by implicit and unshakable Faith. And
in our own times, we ﬁnd Cardinal Newman
praying for guidance in a storm—tossed ship.
When waves were lashing at the sides of the
vessel, when women and children were crowded together on the deck of a drowning ship,
it was the faithful prayer of Newman that

N. RAMESH.

(Continued on page 6)

