CAMPASTIMES

[September I5th, I962

NEWS AND VIEWS

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

SURJIT RANDHAVA
When Vostok IV went into orbit along

EDITORIAL
THE ROAD IS BETTER THAN THE
INN

Like one on a lonesome road,
Doth walk in fear and dread
And having once turned round
walks on,

And turns no more his head.
Thus he cycled on, on the road that was the
road of I.I.T. (Being astudent of economics
and fully well knowing the importance of
monetary values, he had no cycle light.) The
darkness, therefore, was not weird but awe—
some. The iitian coasted along warily and then
suddenly, s-c-r-e-e—c-h. He had braked to a

halt.

Ahead of him was a sign that read,

“Road Closed ”, and behind him a mile and a

half to the next road of the HT. He couldn’t
' even argue with the sign, for it was guarded
by prickly bushes instead of the conventional
drums.

Of course, now there is an interesting
road. Yes, interesting. It branches off the
Adyar Road, takes a left turn, a right turn,
left turn, right turn, left (in the proper NCC

manner) and then there you are at the map
of IIT. You look at it, proceed towards the
hostels and land up at Shantikunj. If you
know the way, you take the straight road to
Krishna Hostel: and before you know what
you are doing you start encircling it. You see, it
has no road leading into it, only one around it.
By day, the deers (the four legged variety)
recede to the privacy of their ‘ Raj Bhavanic ’
homes and the two legged ones come out.
This, as life goes, is really rather nice. That
doesn’t mean, one needn’t be careful to look

out for the electric wires that are being held
across the road (by the by, even if you did
try, you couldn’t see it; and if you think
you’re racing, forget it, and don’t breast the
wire.) ‘ Ditches without caution ’ is now an
old fad. It is rumoured manholes without
covers will be a future one.

with Vostok III, the world shouted with one
voice, ‘they did it again ’
Dear readers,
believe me, ‘ it happened again.’
This time the rendezvous was not at the
airport but at the Narmada Hostel where
they held an exclusive dinner for the high
brows and low brows to the exclusion of the
middle brows. Furthermore, it was not Dr.
M. V. C. Sastry but Dr. R. R. Sastry who
went in for the laurels but came out with an
Oscar.
After relishing a dish of prawns, Dr.
Sastry became quietly curious. ‘I say look’,
he addressed an Asst. Warden, ‘ what is this
vegetable ? ’ The Asst. Warden with a broad
smile told the gourmet that he had mistaken
the prawns for a vegetable.

Mistaking Jung for Khosla, and ﬁsh for
vegetables; quite a sequence I
As is learnt from unusually well-informed
sources, it is planned to attach an Agricultural
-Research Station to our Institute which will
concentrate its work on the cultivation of a
select number of edible plants such as onions,

care for eXercise,take the Rue. St. Velachery.

hackneyed and has been quite badly thrashed
by now by our venerable ﬁlm producers both
here in Madras and in Bombay.

Even his

phraseology reminds one of the dialogues in a
cheap ﬁlm.
Towards the end, he seems to have got an
0. Henry complex by giving a twitch to the

story.
But what does he achieve 2 nothing. If he
wanted us to pity the lovers, he has failed. If
he wanted us to be joyous at the ‘ ﬁllum‘ type

happy ending, excuse me he has failed again.
And lo—before you brand me as ‘ only a
critic’ here is the constructive part.

Such articles should not be written and if

cucumber, and the highly favoured pale beetroot known as ‘ Blushing Madras ’ In search

they are written i.e. if the ﬁrst fully has been
committed, then there is no point in committ-

for a proper site for this Research Station the
authorities have not only unanimously, but,
indeed, enthusiastically selected the groundfloor of the new Science and Humanities
Block, whose soil, as preliminary soil-tests
have convincingly shown, promises to yield
unprecedented bumper crops if only properly
» irrigated; a problem which we are happy to
report, has already been solved ingeniously.
For a short while, it is further learnt, the
absence of sufficient daylight had been posing
a considerable problem. This difﬁculty, however,has already been met by the Physics
Department’s generous offer to instal in each
room four specially designed reﬂectors to

ing the second one of publishing them.
‘ Two wrongs never did make a right ’ and

make up for the deﬁciency.

there is no need for you to go burgling this

fundamental axiom of human laws around the
point.
Yours sincerely,

R. S. SEHGAL.
How about a good story from you, than

living up to your standards ?—Ed.
Dear Kaoeri Bambol
The message for the ﬁrst issue from the
Director has at least made one thing crystal
clear.
If you haven’t got the message as yet, the

Tenders for the

thing that has been made clear is that the

necessary equipment have already been
invited.
In view of these highly promising develop-

Director is an ardent reader of The Nugget
and an admirer of the the Editor of the aforesaid magazine.

ments the authorities are contemplating not to
invite vegetable—vendors to populate the
future I.I.T. Market Centre, as it is felt that

Will he in his magnanimity allow us to
join the

ranks of fortunate readers of the

same, by getting it in the Library.

self»suﬂ'iciency in vegetables will be attained
Yours,

within a hitherto unexperienced short period.

C. C.

Talking of the ScH Block, Antivox Mark II
(see last issue) has arrived. This one takes
the form of a healthy looking diesel tractor.
of some obscure Russian origin. It amused
itself by keeping in tune with Prof. Sampath

Topographically, there is none to beat the
Banyan Avenue. Soft mud, water, puddles,
all churned by lorries and trucks shift under
your weight when you walk. (Just like miniature earthquakes.) But, should you really

Dear Editor,
Your leader inthe ﬁrst issue, and publication
of ‘ Nirmala’ in the same, are two diammetrically opposed phenomenon.
Speciﬁcations provided in ‘ SHE AND You ’
couldn’t be farther off from anything than
‘ Nirmala ’
Author has selected a stupid theme and to
top it has dealt with it—stupidly. His plot is

during the whole course of an afternoon‘s
Electronics lecture. The result of course was
that I could not grasp the value of something
to do with Mr. Planck with disastrous consequences in a subsequent periodical.
Famous Madame Pompadour, as will be

P.S. The name of the Editor used above
is a copyright of C. C.
DEAR EDITOR,
Do unto others as you would 86 c.

I dare

say for those who haven’t read the Bible there
must be an equivalent proverb (?) in their

language.

Treat us like prisoners and we’ll

treat the authorities like gaolers.

If the high-

Peddle one, two, three bump, four, ﬁve
bump, six bump, bump hump . . . . . . So
you come back and take your dinner.

recalled, is reputed to have exclaimed in utter
astonishment: ‘Why don’t they eat cake, if

Truck drivers, in the evenings particularly:
imagine themselves to be on the Indianapolis

Well they will, don’t worry I

tract. They come tearing down, not realising

‘Tasty Bakery’ at Gandhinagar,. run under
the auspices of the Guild of Service, has
taken up production of pastry and cheese—

students to study harder or instil a sense of
responsibility. If there is any other technical

cake (not the female variety we regret to

leaving hostel premises after 8~3o pm. I
suggest you send them a copy of this.

that the precarious curve at the end of the staff
quarters is banked in the wrong direction.
To add colour, some of them have ‘fog’
lights too.

they have no bread P ’ Yes, why don’t they ?
Not, of course,

the poor people of Paris, but our students.

report) which, as is reliably learnt, will in

A few days back, this particular problem of

future form the basic diet of I. I. T. Students

transporting oneself was felt. rather acutely.

along with the abovementioned vegetables.

Having inspected the ‘to be auctioned
dump ’ lying in the enclosure of the Civil Engi-

Some eternal fault-ﬁnder may foresee a rapid

ups expect the cream of Indian intellect to behave like responsible human beings they must
treat us as such. Taking roll calls at half

past eight and forbidding people to relax after
that time is not, I assure you, going to help

institution

which

forbids their

ANON.
Wee Willie Winkie.
Runs through the town,

Upstairs and downstairs

neering block the surveyor found itself locked

decline in I. I. T. sports activities, but, after
all, this loss can easily be made up for by an

in by the fencing.

annual paunch—competition.

Running through the streets
Tapping at the doors,

geniously, then
Room 105.

The buffalo, rather in-

made

its

way

A last word about road signs.

through

The autho-

rities (for they are not to blame for these
mishappenings) are contemplating negotiations

In light of the all too frequent power
breakdowns, Sarosh Talukdar most wisely
remarked that the height of frustration and
irony is studying for a Transmission and

Distribution Examination by Candle-light.

‘inrnates’

In his nightgown.

Are the children in their beds?

It’s past eight o’clock.
Ed.
DEAR EDITOR,
Stupid things have been known to have

with the ‘ Film Club ’ to teach (through films

One half of the Gymkhana notice board in
the Civil Engg. block tells me that I owe

of course) the correct use of roads and road
safety. Why? Because, at present, the road

Rs. 1.40 for blueprints, that a symposium of
Leather Technology was held in the ﬁrst week

and staff alike, but the rules which the autho-

signs are mostly nailed on trees, at least
three yards off the road (so that they do not
get damaged.)

of August and that on the third of the same

students of Kaveri have topped every thing
done so far.
In they have marched with the dirtiest set

One does really wonder, if good old G. B.
wasn’t wrong in saying, ‘Life would be
tolerable but for its amusements.’

its activities to all these ﬁelds?
Idea of the Month: How about soundproofing the third year class-rooms?

month I was granted a day’s leave.

Since

when, may I ask, has the Gymkhana extended

been done in the Institute by the students
rities think they can force on the peace-loving

of rules ever made.
(Continued on page 5)

