September l5th. I962]

CAMPASTIMES

Letters—(Continued from page 4)

Over A Cup of Aye Aye Tea

The D-Day notiCe found hanging on the
notice board on the evening of 28—6-62 was
nothing short of a deliberate massacre of the
ﬁner feelings of the students 85 as such

a

cold-blooded atrocity. The rules are in direct
violation to every code of decent behaviour

for adults.
They are unfair doubtlessly, but what is not

Luminous flux (never mind the deﬁnition) is
represented by f, l, q etc. One alphabet for

along with ‘ Carpentry ’ under ‘ Useful Arts ’.

each day of the week. Each Lecturer uses a
different symbol for the same quantity. A
typical example is acceleration represented by
f, a and x with an umlaut (how does one
pronounce it P).

(He is Prof. of Mathematics at M.I.T. and

Maybe Carpentry is Norbert Weiners’ hobby.
author of ‘ Cybernetics’).
Rumour has it that the Auditorium will be
ready in time for the 1984 ‘International
George OrWell year‘ celebrations.’

only unfair but also despotic is the tone of

the notice.
‘No representations shall be entertained’
was the way of ruthless rulers of the medi-

aeval ages and can not be allowed to have any

As thenumber of subjects increase and many
lecturers have to take different aspects of the
same subject the trouble with nomenclature
will get out of hand. It would be a good idea

place in a 20th century democratic society.

if all the departments agree on a standard set
of symbols, subscripts etc. to represent the

But of course, if the authorities think they
have the Time Machine invented in the imagi-

various physical quantities.

nation of H. G. Wells, I can assure them that
the only ﬁt place for them are the ‘Marshlands
of Venus’ where they can make their stupid

Today and a set of symbols recommended.
Or if this Institute insists on being unique

rules for all we care.

A printing press together with a compositing
machine is lying in the Port Godowns. When
is the expert from ‘Unsere Zeitung’ coming

to set it up? I

The problem is

discussed brieﬂy in a recent issue of Physics

Anybody seen the I. I. T. Supermarket
with the ‘ Ye ollde shopee’ look. I believe

they took the design from a cover of Which
magazine.
V.S.

why not have a conference of our own in Tamil
or inter lingua !.

And in case this may appear a bit harsh

they can go to a kindergarden and try to
manage the children the way they are trying to
treat us. I can bet anything they won’t suc-

ceed even there.
Yours etc.
Sir,
We read in the papers of a National Association for Scientiﬁc Hobbies in Bangalore.
The only way Technologists can get the hang

The Physics Department holds seminar
lectures (cum tea parties). The timings of
these have been so adjusted that it is almost
impossible for any student to attend them.

(Tea is not essen—

The latest craze in the hostels right now

The Department of Chemical Engineering

is the shaven head. Bald pates are in View
everywhere. To my query as to his reason for
the shave, one boy told me that a shave once

investigated so secretively.
tial !)

of things is to work on small projects them~
selves The number and variety of these
projects is very large. Almost every issue of
any scientiﬁc publication has some interesting
ﬁeld heeding further investigation or on the
practical side some new types of machinery to

has found a most efficient, resonant cavity in
the form of room number 105 in the Civil
Engineering Block.

Vibrations transmitted

in the workshops are anyway lying idle and if
these can
noons or
students
However,

be put to use on Saturday afterSundays, it would be ideal for the
interested in using their hands.
there are twospitfalls to be avoided.

in a way promoted better growth of hair. Ah
well 1 Best of luck to them I say.

through the roof drown the other noises in
the room, much to the relief of the students,
but too much of anything can be a bore. By

be experimented upon. It is high time, this
Institute hada Hobby Club or Association of
its own devoted to the development of
Amateur Scientiﬁc Research. The machinery

THE GROWMORE HAIR
CAMPAIGN

We hope the department will have at least one
lecture on Saturday afternoons to enlighten the
students on the ﬁelds of research being

the way—how about black chalks—why? To
write on White boards of course l

A mysterious power failure at night is now
steadily becoming a regular feature. But what
is surprising is that only certain wings experi-

ence it.

Our budding electrical engineers

attribute it to faulty wiring.
The library is in the news again. This time
the situation is worse than the item in the last
issue indicates. Cybernetics (spelt with an ‘ S’

Dr. Klein washed up the front of his car

in the card) That Science which deals with

on Mount Road.

information theory and computers is classiﬁed

him ; at least so he says!)
Germany for a new grill.

(A road hog backed into
He is sending to

Haphazard mismanagement and what is more
injurious—excess of Red-tapism. Any organisation that is oﬂicialised and subjected to

Vaswani was declared the best speaker with

Mahesh’s ‘Go-Kart’ is only a memory now.

T. S. Ananthu second, and V. Siddhartha third.

He is bank on his scooter which is still in good

audit control will only be a showpiece, or

On the 30th August ’62, Prof. Thangaraj
of Madras Christian College conducted a

worse, a liability. The best way to go about
it is to assign those who are interested in

shape even after its sojourn with Nutty.
delightfully

absorbing

Quiz

programme.

projects to the head of department under
which the project broadly falls into and
workshop facilities be freely available together
with the materials. The head of the department

R. Venkateswaran, as always, bagged the ﬁrst
place. Vikram Rao was second and V. Sid—

can supervise the theoretical work and the
emerging project can be the property of the

We justiﬁed our existence in the external

dhartha third.

Independence Day celebrations went off with
a bang. A rather interesting debate in the
morning was followed by a special dinner and
variety entertainment in Krishna Hostel at

night. The German staff was present in force.
Dr. Klein came in an unusual get up and

they can be asked to make a duplicate and pay

literary world, too, when Venkateswaran and
Vikram Rao took part in a Quiz programme
on All India Radio; and Venkateswaran stood

the cost

In this way some

third in the Presidency College Quiz pro-

caused general hilarity. He got a consolation
prize for the Fancy Dress while G. Verghese
knocked off the 1st prize. A few boring
songs, a quiz of sorts 8: a half ﬁnished game of

genuine research can be conducted and this

gramme. R. A. Vaswani participated in a
Group Discussion on All India Radio, the
subject being ‘ Youth and the Nation’.

‘housie housie’ comprised the rest of the
entertainment.
M.V.R.

Institute.

If the individuals want the project
of materials.

infuses a sense of partnership {with the Institute in the students.

Already one hears.

‘ It

belongs to the Institute—why the h- -l do I
have to bother.’
Another thing—there is a lot of fabrication
work going on in the Institute—from the

THE WATER PROBLEM.

Hydraulics Lab. to materials handling and so
forth. Why not let some of the students who
don’t mind dirtying their hands help in the
fabrication?

They could learn alot.

warm! WAIER PLEA”!

mm: 13 Na WATER m
m.

The

only way to infuse conﬁdence in us is to make
us realise for ourselves that what we learn in
501?? Y, [III/V IN

the class-room is not just so much nonsense but

KRISHNA

is really applied in practice. A B Tech. from
this institute will know nothing and will feel

THERE I: No WATIR.

A?

extremely jittery if given the responsibility of

designing, say a distillation column. However,
if he helps out in the fabrication of the pilot
a)

plants to be set up, he will have conﬁdence and

that is the important thing.

NAREADA

Yours etc.

I: my fan.

V. SIDDHARTHA.

st“
LITERARY ACTIVITIES

N")

The Literary Activities Committee inaugurated its activities for the year with an interesting debate on Independence Day. ‘ Resolved
that India’s policy towards China should be
one of peaceful negotiation and not war ’ was
the subject of the debate. The motion, as
one

would expect,

was defeated.

R. A.

I

\k

(\l
< \\
7

»

