[September I5th, I962

CAMPASTIMES
become familiar with metric materials, and
adept in the use of designs, codes, methods of
conversion, etc., and on ways and means of
promoting such training.

JSI'

The following topics will illustrate the scope
of the Session :

SEVENTH INDIAN
STANDARDS
CONVENTION

(i) Adoption of metric system in engi-

neering education
(ii) The problem of text books in metric
system
(iii) In-plant training programmes for

TRAINING AND EDUCATION or
ENGINEERS IN METRIC SYSTEM
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION
Manak Bhavan
New Delhi.

engineering and supervisory personnel, parti-

cularly those engaged in design ofﬁces
(iv) Standard speciﬁcations and availability
of metric materials, tools, etc.
(v) Conversion of designs to metric system
Organizations and individuals interested in
the subject are invited to attend the Session

Dear Editor,

As you are perhaps aware, the Seventh Indian
Standards Convention will be held at Calcutta

and to contribute original and thought-provo—
king papers not exceeding 2500 words. Further

from 28th January to 2nd February x963. . . .

details are available from :

. . . . . .The Convention will have nine Technical Sessions which will discuss matters of

topical interest.

,

BY M. VIKRAM RAO
There was a sharp knock at the door and
a cry of ‘ Post’. I rushed to the door and
my soaring spirits fell away when I saw the
familiar shape of the package in his hand.
Failure again. It was my magazine essay
coming back like a homing pigeon—rejected

for the nth time. It had seen the inside of
every magazine ofﬁce in town and in each
case had returned like a speedy boomerang.
The usual note accompanied it “ Owing to

lack of

space, . . . . . " Editors, I mused

ruefully, had no originality in their refusals.
‘Ah well’ I thought, the next one will do the

trick (optimism being my weak point I)
At that moment Satish came in and said
‘Hallo Ramesh, what’s wrong? You look
very much down in the dumps.’
‘ Hah I ’ I snorted, ‘ read this ’. I handed

him my essay without the offensive note.

The Organizing Secretary,
Seventh Indian Standards Convention,
Manak Bhaoan, 9 Mathura Road,

. . . . . . . . . . . .it has been decided to hold a
special Session entitled ‘Training and Education of Engineers in Metric System ’.

BEGINN ER’S LUCK

New DEZhi-r.

I’ll say this of Satish—he is patient. He
read through it laboriously and said at length
‘ I say, this is quite good. Why, you should

send this to a magazine.’ This well meant
comment rankled all the more. I replied
bitterly ‘ For your information, this wretched

As the subject is of considerable interest to

manuscript has

your readers, we are sending herewith a press
note giving details of this session, inviting
papers for discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

editor in town ! ’

SPORTS

for Organising Secretary.

with a vengeance! Subba Rao swept through
to the ﬁnal of the Bertram Cup without

dropping a game. It was a diﬁerent Subba Rao,
however, who played the ﬁnal. His scintillatTRAINING AND EDUCATION OF
ENGINEERS IN METRIC SYSTEM

ing shots though absent were amply compensated by a sound defence. He beat Prasad of
Loyola by 3 games to r and the issue never

Under the Standards of Weights and
Measures Act, 1956, metric system is being
progressively introduced in various ﬁelds in
the country. Metric weights are already compulsory throughout the country, and by the

seemed to be in doubt.

end of r963 only the metric units of weights,

thrilling moments and they survived four
match points. They lost the ﬁrst two games
and came into their own in the succeeding

capacity and length would be legal in the
whole of India.
Metric system has been adopted by various
undertakings, both in public and private

sectors. In the ﬁeld of engineering, however,
the changeover to the new system has to be
gradual and carefully planned. For this, there

He was the winner in

1960, runner-up in 1961 and is now the winner

in 1962.
Gopalkrishnan and Subba Rao walked off
with the doubles trophy.

games.

The match had its

The combination, however, was more

impressive in the previous matches.
One point to these cups : We have at
present at least six cups, and they might be
In

the Jain college tennis

Tournament

Lionel Paul entered the ﬁnals and was beaten
3 games to r by N. Srinivasan of A.C. college.

duction.
Metric system has not yet found its appropriate place in technical and engineering
education, but more and more attention is now
being paid to this important aspect of the
metric reform. At a conference called by the
Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
the question of adopting metric system in
higher technical education was fully discussed

something about that not being a criterion
and all that.
I showed him the notes some kinder editors
had written. They said that essays were out
of date nowadays and that the public preferred stories—especially mystery stories.
Moreover, they added, my essays were too
rambling. The more humane (or should I

say indulgent) ones observed that my style
could be moulded into something good.
Seeing all this Satish observed, ‘ why don’t
you try your hand at mystery or detective
stories ? I mean to say it shouldn’t require
much doing.‘
‘ But,’ I countered ‘ I’ve never written one
in my life. I can’t just write one out of the

blue and expect it to succeed.’
‘Pessimism is your main failing’ he
answered.
‘ Nothing of the sort, I’m just facing facts,’
However, the outcome was that I decided

put in a show case in the Institute building.

is an imperative need for education and train-

ing of engineers so as to effect a smooth
changeover in planning, designing and pro—

returned by every

He was surprised into silence by the
vehemence of my answer. He murmured

I.I.T. is coming on the map at last, and

Yours faithfully,

been

In the Bertram Tournament our doubles pair
R. P. Shetty and Lionel Paul reached the
Semi-ﬁnals and were beaten by a strong doubles

combination from Coimbatore.

to write a mystery story, or rather attempt
to write one. I outlined my plot to Satish
and it received a reserved and cryptic ‘ Okay ’.
Not much of a testimonial; however, I

penned it out without trepidation.
The great day dawned when the story was
sent. I was on tenterhooks ever since. One
day the long awaited reply came. Satish being with me at the time read the letter ﬁrst.
As he read a variety of expressions chasod

each other over his face. At last he handed
it over, and I took it with an attempted

AUCTION NOTICE

air of nonchalance.

In it was written “ We

by the principals of technical institutions in
are glad to inform you that your very humorous short story has been accepted and shall

India and it was unanimously recommended

that the metric system be introduced in higher

be published on . . . .” Next week it
appeared with the heading—“A humorous
short story by K. S. Ramesh ".

technical education by stages so as to com-

plete the changeover by the end of 1964-65.
With a view to highlighting the importance

Later Satish consoled “ It was accepted
anyway ”.

of training and education of engineers in
metric system and disseminating information

on the subject, the Indian Standards Institu0n Prayer—(Continued from page 3)

tion has decided to hold a Technical Session
entitled “ Training and Education of Engineers in Metric System (84))” during the
Seventh Indian Standards Convention to be
held at Calcutta from 28th January to 2 Feb—

a masterpiece of complete surrender at the

ruary 1963. About 500 delegates consisting
of

engineers, technologists, scientists,

and

research workers, business executives, policy
makers

and others concerned, drawn from

industry and trade; research; technological
and engineering institutions; Government
departments and others are expected to participate in the Session.
The Technical Session will discuss important subjects related to training and education

Sub. :

INSTITUTE FURNITURE

An auction will be held during the‘ ﬁrst

week of October in connection with the observance of the National Cleanliness Day of
thoroughly seasoned Institute furnitute (imported wood I) in the quadrangle of Civil
Engineering Building.

of engineers in metric system, including
among others, conversion of curricula to
metric system ; writing and publishing of new
text books, re-editing of old books and teaching

The bidders are warned that this highly
valuable piece of Central Government property is already guarded by watchmen and fence.

notes. Discussions will also take place on the
need for training engineers and teachers of

leisure.

engineering to

think in metric terms, to

Those interested may inspect it at their

Dept. of Garbage Disposal, C.G.WD.

altar of the Almighty. Through that prayer,
he understood God as his guide, philosopher
and friend.
Prayer should be an essential virtue of
our daily lives. It would be a truer companion than ﬂattering friends who crowd round
us in times of prosperity—The power of a
sinCere prayer is invincible, if we have faith

in Him. Its miracles are many, if our belief
in Providence is unshakable. But if the concept of Prayer brings to our minds only the

chanting of mantras and hymns, it can only be
said that we have yet to understand its uniqueness. And if our efforts are not sincere
enough to understand the ‘Mahima’ of Prayer,
Lord Tennyson would pity us and say :—
‘For what are men better than Sheep or
Goats,

If Knowing God, they know not lift hands
of Prayer 1’

