September |5th, .l962]

messages from the
map
This is Pavel Popovich reporting to you
from outer space. I have great pleasure in
announcing that the space ship launched
to commemorate the ﬁrst publication of
‘ Campastimes ‘ is functioning smoothly.
Below me I can see students of the I. I. T.
snatching copies of this magazine from members of the Editorial Board, and above me
I can seen the people on the Moon and Mars
running to get a copy of this magazine from

the paper vendor.

Eagerly awaiting to land

back on Earth so as to be able to read a copy

of the ‘ Campastimes ’.
I remain,
Your astronaut,

CAMPASTIMES
to our innocuous tribe. I can visualise many
a ‘ moral’ eye-brow being lifted to hear the
My simple solution to the problem lies in
the observance of the following commandments by the fraternity of the wedded :—
(a) Thou shalt not suspect thyself, thy

that you did not carry an article (or an
Editorial) stressing the need for the establishment of a Punjabi Suba B And how can you
ever be excused for not declaring explicitly
that I am the undisputed leader of the Akali

Dal 3

to thy married neighbour.

of education as envisaged in the light of modern

(5) Thou shalt not close one window

(6) Thou shalt not seek immoral immu~
nity through your armour of matrimony.

(:1) Thou shalt not moralise
bachelor of ‘ hearts ’.

to the

psychology is to stimulate and guide selfdevelopment. More than often most of our

actions could be said to form a stereo-typed
pragmatic pattern which suppresses our
originality. The dangers of blind imitation

Violation of any one of these injunctions
will drive us to form—the S.P.C.B. (Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Bachelors).
As for the peril ofsnakes, I hear that those
reptiles have already ﬂed their haunts and
I do not know who had molested them—the
bachelors or the married ones ?
‘ BACHELOR ’.

of others cannot be under-estimated—fear
of obloquy leads to frustration and mental
stagnation.
As children we have often been chided

and reproached for ‘not being upto the‘
mark ’—that we must come ﬁrst in the Class
like Jack or Tom. Thus the insidious idea " ‘
that we must be like someone else is slowly

inculcated in us as children and they are the
root cause of an inferiority complex—a
malady too common in everyday life. Thus
such people enjoy a vicarious delight in

ALI BABA’S CAVE
KURUVILLA THOMAS, K.
Life certainly seemed to have been good to

MASTER TARA SINGH.

The inevitable problem that often confronts

us is whether what we do is acceptable by

against the bachelor and open another window

occupied Raj Bhavan.
during my term in jail was the ‘ Campastimes ’.
I must say that the paper was excellent, and
the printing was good. But I cannot say the
same thing about the material. How is it

V. RANGANATHAN

others as reasonable or not and consequently
the restrictions laid down by an effete
society hampers our behaviour. The purpose

wife and the bachelor.

PAVEL POPOVICH.
The only journal that I was allowed to read

ON BEING ONESELF

epithet ‘innocuous ’.

me as I entered the Common Room that day.
The bubbling waters of the

Cauvery had

cooled my nerves (it was mostly bubbles
alone). I found my favourite chair under the

seeing their ‘idols’ performing deeds par
excellence.
It is imperative that we realise that our
human personality is a distinct entity quite
unlike any other and Shakespeare’s dictum ‘
that ‘ ’Tis in ourselves that we are thus or .
thus and that our bodies are our gardens,
to the which our wills are gardeners . . . either
to have it sterile with idleness or manned
with industry, Why the bower and corrigible
authority of this lies in our wills,’ is worthy
of note. We all have talents and paradoxi-

The Revolution must spread. It has
reached even the Adenauer-controlled Indian
Institute of Technology, Madras. The people’s
voice has expressed itself in the form of
‘Campastimes’, as is evident from the
article ‘Suitable Government for UnderDeveloped Nations ’. The eternal friendship

fan, sank into its cushioned comfort, and
it creaked with good nature. I pushed my
feet into the luxury of the newspapers heaped
up on the ﬂoor and my best pals, the Bugs,

between the peoples of India and the Soviet
Union has been further enhanced by Mr.

climbing down the wall—I mean the red

still seems to be an esoteric one. Elusive
though it may seem, if only we stopped
imitating others, concentrate and decide

spider who lives at the right-hand corner near

‘ irrevocably on what we feel is right will go

Venkateswara Rao by his honourable mention
of the Russian mechanical engineer and the
language of the Soviet peoples. My only
suggestion is that the ultra—capitalist cryptofascist
publisher be replaced by Mr. ’
Poornanjaneya Sastry.
NrKI-rA KHRUSHCHEV.

gently stroked me to sleep.
I woke up with a start to ﬁnd someone

the door (not the one who stays behind the

cally enough, the proper cultivation of it

a long way in solving our difﬁculties.

Radio) and being one of those friendly types,
I said ‘hello’.

He didn’t seem to mind, and

tattered off to his favourite corner.
Some sort of a vocalist was creaking over

the big Phillips Novosonic.

I searched for

Comparisons are odious and more so to
bring in ideas which are basically extraneous
to human personality is sob stuff. The more
we strive to perfect ourselves in an indi-

the big Novosonic under the pile of maga-

vidual fashion the better it is.

zines (it is so big that you can’t ﬁnd it bet-

are

not

Human beings

and can never be

mathematical

ween a' couple of School-books), found it and

SNAKES GROW FAST IN
RA] BHAVAN

turned off the switch. The Lamenter was
still going strong and so I put the Novoso—
nic in my lap and gave it six of the very best.

(Continued on page 8)

Madras, Aug. 20.
That did it.

The Lamenter gurgled off as

Snakes in Raj Bhavan Estate have become a
menace now, a spokesman for the Governor’s
Household said to-day.
A snake charmer who has been specially
appointed to catch the snakes, succeeds in

though someone had pulverized him.
The ‘guardian of the law’ in Cauveri
(Sampath) then came and swept the news—
papers and magazines into a huge sack, and
hauled it back to his room. Right then I

killing about 50 snakes a month, but the snakes

thought that he might have found the Bull—
dozer useful.

appear to be multiplying at a faster rate, the
spokesman said. The snake charmer is paid
50 nP. for every venomous snake and Re. I

for a cobra.
Another problem confronting the Household
administration is the shortage of grass in the

I went off to sleep thinking about how
sweet it was of the Hostel to provide such

a nice abode for our little pals.

Go—Kartll Cart!
Centre of many an eye
Supposedly made by
The Great one.
Envy of many hearts
Belongs to the man
‘ of spare parts ’
If you don’t know
It is the Go-Kart
Which is more often
‘ Not go ’
But the Great Engineer
Realises it not,
And to take off
Defying the eternal ‘g ’,

zoo-acre estate for the rapidly multiplying
deer population. There are at present over
2,000 deer in the park. —
Af er handing over some portion to the
Indian Institute of Technology, the rest of the

From :

Atomic Energy Establishment at Los Alamos

But if not careful he shall ﬁnd himself

estate has been fenced and the deer ﬁnd them-

is a sign :

In the open Gutters

“MACHINE DESIGN"

Near the Computer that works for the

Of IIT.

selves in an enclosed portion. The authorities
are now considering steps to grow grass in

plenty.
From “The Hindu”

SNAKES AND
BACHELORS
The latest fear in the Campus is that snakes
and bachelors will prove a menace to the
families of the staff when they move into the

Campus Quarters. How to protect against
the double venom of snakes and bachelors——
This is a poser that requires to be answered.
I have even heard it lively debated that of
the two the more dangerous are the bachelors.

My blood curdles (being a bachelor myself)
to hear such an outrageous complement paid -

R. S. SEHcAL.

ACHTUNG!
Alles Lookenseepers
Das Komputenmachine is nicht fur
geﬁngerpoken. untl mittengraben. Is easy
schnappen der springwerk, blowen fusen,

und poppen corken mit spittzensparken.
Its nicht fur gewerken by das dummkopfen.
Das rubbernecken sightseeren keepen
Handen in das Pockets—relaxen und
watch das Blinken Lights.

Das ist ein zehr gutexamplen fur Die

foriegn returnen. Ist das klar? Ia !!

V S

