CAMPASTIMES

Why don’t you . . .

[September ISth, I962

“HAIRCUT, PLEASE 1”
BY R. A. VAsWANI

'1‘ .. . Join the Film Club

IN LOVE’S HOLINESS
BURN

It was very disconcerting to wake up from

for details Contact
P. L. KAPUR.

a night’s slumber and, on looking into the

Along the widened road I walked,

mirror, ﬁnd an unruly crop of overgrown hair
engulﬁng the head and, in fact, weighing down
upon it as it were. Sikhs and Elvis Presley fans
are, of course, oblivious of such a feelingathe

Ah l the wish of perfume lingers,
Breathe deep, the enchanting charm!

former due to an ancient religious binding
and the latter due to a binding which they
seem to have made a teenager‘s religion. In

THE FIRST NIGHT

sharp contrast are the Yul Brynner fans who
prefer to go around with bald tops. (Incidentally, we have quite a few in our Institute.)

Let it, the warmth of live heart,
In blossom through thy mortal nose seek,
Pollute it not, with whispers false!
Thoughts of everlasting purity aught

In pious age bread.
But Then! the dear Miss is gone,
A brief moment in life’s toiling vain,
A turn of the womanly shoulders,

The ﬂowing grace of the dress so ﬁne,
D. D.

Be so as it may, it is strange that even

SAMUEL

though there is a strong feeling of dislike for
I switched off the light ; paused a moment.
‘The shallow waters of the gentle stream

reﬂected the silvery rays of the moon: I
could observe the tiny ebbs through the
window. So were ebbs in my heart. There
was a whirl in that river; so was a whirl in
my mind. I moved towards the window ;

that magniﬁcent growth, it is not so pronounced as to place me at a barber’s mercy right
away. It is only after hearing repeated com—

plaints at the breakfast—tabIe—when one is

rested my chin on the bar and looked in

more interested in the China border than on
the fringe of hair surrounding the ear—and
after a guilty feeling of personal uncleanliness
has set in that I can make up my mind to go

between.

for a haircut.

The

cool and slow breeze told

whispers in the trees around.
the bridge.

There stood

I saw a beam of light and a faint

roar. Yes, it was the last Express to pass the
bridge. The light grew brighter and the
roar wilder and made a thundering noise at
its' terrifying speed over the bridge. Again
'the'noise grew weaker and weaker until at

last it died and was forgotten.

I couldn’t

see Clearly; my eyes were moistened. Alone
I stood in that deserted Guindy Hostel of the
Indian Institute of Technology for the ﬁrst
time away from home. My memory went
back to those days which I had happily spent
at home for 16 years. I was so sorrow—
stricken with no one around me to talk to;
and threw myself into the bed and burst into
tears; after a while I was calm and entered

The modern saloon is a gaily-lit, mirrored
affair and looks, for all the world, like a room

of an Oriental palace on the sets of a Hindi
ﬁlm, but for the rows of swivelling chairs and
meticulously dressed barbers, deeply engrossed in their work. Most of the saloons provide a variety of women’s magazines so that
you can read about the forty two year old
debonair falling in love with a nineteen year

old girl and then asking for advice from a

tioned and have soft tape-recorded music
thrown into the bargain. All these embellishments, however, appeal to me only as a cons~
piracy amongst barbers to avoid the customer

paying undue attention to their actions—and
slips, of course—while they wield such
dangerous weapons as a cut-throat razor, etc.

and obviously requires a different treatment!
The intensity with which this effects a
particular individual is dependent on so many

factors.

Firstly it depends on the condition

under which he lived at home. If he is one
of so many, say a dozen, only one-twelfth of
the total affection of the parents would he
have received, so from his sisters and brothers

and hence this man will be less affected than
an only son or an only child who would
have experienced a better proportion of
motherly love. The kind—hearted father will
always receive letters from his son who always
writes that he is homesick. The stern-hearted
father will never receive such a letter. Stern~
heartedness is a virtue in this respect.
Secondly the psychology
of a man
contributes a major part in developing this
disease. If he is of the type who thinks
more of the past rather than face the future

I am afraid his immunity will be much less
and hence he will be most affected.

Only a

minority are affected due to this particular
reason.

“Haircut, please !” and you are seated,
and almost immediately driven out of breath
by a tight knot around your neck. At this
juncture, I always pray that the barber has not
had a row with his wife in the morning, for it

invariably leads to an uninhibited wreaking
of his vengeance on your head—result : only a
few cuts here and there and probably a sprain
in the neck.
After half an hour, the cutting part is over.
The barber beams at you and asks in a ‘youcan’t-say—no—to—me’ tone ‘Shampoo, Sir P’
Say yes, and the bill shoots up two times;
say no, and you go down in his ‘opinion’
scale by ten points. I always resort to the

latter course and make amends by tipping the
blighter an extra coin or two.
You step out in the street. Ah!

If a man is of a reserved type who can by

that he only catches the bad qualities of
others even though they are in a minor
proportion and he is never able to appreciate

the good in them. I must call them selfcentred because it may not be far wrong to
say that they consider themselves as a
symbolism of all virtue which, they think,

What

a light and cool feeling in the head and what

The freshness of a ﬂower suggest
Should I, this ecstacy of my love,
Further on paper pen,
Or in deeds before the world
In love's holiness burn.

an itch all over the rest of the body !

A nice,

N. RAMESH.

people who can make themselves at home in
any surroundings within a very short interval
of time. This demands a broadmindedness
and an ability to do what he wills. One of
the effective ways of making friends is by
self-introduction and not through a mediator.
It is an art and only few master it. Some
are quick in getting it and some are slow.

The critical case is however in between the
two. Statistical analysis shows the distribution
follows a normal distribution and the majority

belong to the critical case. The other two
cases are very few and nothing can be done
by any external agency. It is their.earned lot.
*

*

*

*

I lay on the bed thinking of those Complaints made by the newly wedded grooms

about the homesicknes of their unmatured
brides. The problem which they are
confronted with is highly delicate. I smiled
as I thought I am going to be an Engineer in
ﬁve years ! A sense of manlihood dawned on
me. Imagining a bright future ahead, I
wiped off these tears. I fancied quite a lot

long bath and you are feeling ﬁne till you

of ‘ other things ’ too.

glance in the mirror of course, you are nota
Presley anymore, but a—a typhoid victim l

joy, happiness and hope. . . in a few seconds

I was ﬁlled with

I sank into that sweet momentary oblivion.

from others and base that as the foundation
of a friendship. Of course a man with a few
friends feels more homesick than one with a
number of friends. It should however be
remembered that friends alone will not cure

this
no means make friends with others on any
grounds he will experience a very severe
attack. His temperament is so pessimistic

ness
Of the oval face!
Blushes! so thin, and delicate, on
cheeks,
Of the juicy apple speak,
Strifed with the rosiness of a sinking sun.
Oh ! let me be feeling thy ﬁngers long,
They, the Artist brush so delicate,
To mortal shame they put,
Thy ankles, so slim, and soft,

years were not enough for him to make his
own decisions. Some saloons are air—condi-

Yes, that was homesickness of course!
This is a sickness common to both sexes as
most of the others. The origin of this disease
is that when one has to accommodate oneself

at home. By home I mean with parents
and not with the better-half in which case
that particular sickness takes another name

0n the silken gossamer thread
A halo of softness radiant,
In poltic contrast with the milky white-

feminine columnist as though his forty two

into a deep thought.

in an entirely new surroundings for the ﬁrst
time after a considerably long period of time

Matching the curls of spread out hair,
The fading sunlight on the shining hair,
Like a summer ray, lighting drops of rain,

disease.

ON BEING ONESELF
(Continued form page 7)

If a man ﬁnds pleasure in

games, reading, writing, to him they serve as
best medicine.
Now the question arises, should one feel
homesick at all? If he should, what should
be its order of Magnitude? Every man,

I think, ought to possess a certain degree of
homesickness at the beginning because this
reﬂects his reaction to the affection shown to
him by his parents. Blood is after all thicker

identities. To have common ideas and
working together is not to be deprecated—
it is the blind yes—man type mentality that
is to be avoided. The Laissez—faire philosophy in everyday life doesn’t necessarily
pronounce chaos—it only implies that we
must not become dull and that new ideas
must be welcomed and tolerated. Plato’s
statement has a signal importance in this

context that ‘experience takes away more

than water and every man will love his home

than it adds; young people are nearer ideas

must be found in others. It is impossible in
this world for two individuals to be identical in
all manner of behaviour however identical

toacertain extent, in fact to alarge extent.
The amount by which he manifests, this is
homesickness.

than old men.’ Thus we could avoid many
pitfalls in our life and lead lives worthy of

they may be in physical form. Hence it is
foolish to expect a similar mode of behaviour

The time factor plays a very important role

in this particular disease.

There are certain

ourselves remembering Aesop’s fable—the sad
fate which overtook the crow which imitated
the peacock in vain.

Edited by Anand Singh Bawa, published by Dr. N. Klein and printed at the Diocesan Press, Vepery, Madras 7, for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

