Date: 22.2.1981.

Issue No. 4

EDITORIAL
The Wall Mag. is picking up some tempo now. We have been
al10tteQ Rs. 100/= for this semester from the Lit. funds of the
hostel. This will be given away in the form ofLPw.e*ee every week. [prize
The best article published in the next four weeks will win a fabulous
prize of Rs. 20. This prize will hold for every set of four issues
henceforth. The remaining Rs. 60 will be distributed in the form of
prizes of Rs. 10 per week for all-correct entries in crossword puzzles,
brain teasers, etc. Any suggestions regarding the utilization of
these funds are welcome. The account of the expenditure of the hundred
bucks will be published along with the last issue.
Letters to the editor are welcome. So next time you find yourself
awake inR the Histech class (you must be tired of noughts and crosses
by now), do use your talents and at least write a letter to the
editor.
The quiz held in the mess last week was a turn-by-turn zapping
machine. The team containing three editors managed to answer only
five questions (or was it seven?) Anyway, the winners deserved
their victory.
The volleyball finals saw a very keen tussle in the first two
games. In both games, Natraj and Co. were leading 14-13; but they
lost both. The main difference from last time's 2-2 encounter seemed to be Alok, who was muffing some easy shots. Anyway, Well Done,
Krishna De and Co.!
This week's issue is coming out rather late due to the unreasonable, indifferent, high-handed, aristocratic attitude of the Mess
Manager. This issue was ready to be typed early in the morning. We
could not get the office key because the Mess Manager said ~hat the
key was with the Assistant Warden, and not with him. WBen the Asst.
Warden returned in the night, we learned that the key had been with
the Mess Manager all along. In the meantime, the Mess Manager had
gone out. Thus we are sitting down to type, with the prospect of
being up till midnight. We greatly deplore the attitude of the Mess
Manager.
MANDAK RAG is carrying on in the face of adversities. At every
corner do I meet someone who says, 'The standard is not good,' 'The
jokes are cogged,' 'The stuff is not worth being put up on the notice
board,' and so on. Those who do not express themselves freely are
generally the appreciative ones. However, I will never lose heart.
Come rain, come sunshine, every weekend will see a new issue of
MANDAK RAG, right till the end of this semester.

******
Sign on desk on 4th floor, Ad. Block:
'Don't wake me while I'm working.'

**

away_

A lunatic escaped from an asylum, raped a girl, and ran
Next day's headline:

'Nut Screws and Bolts'.

******
OUR MESSY MESS
Writing about the Mandak mess is not an easy task as it requires
the ability to express bitter thoughts in sweet words.
The early bird catches the worm. The wise men who coined this
proverb had enough foresight. If you go within the first few minutes
of lunchtime, ,ou are assured of a chair, chapaties, a glass of
water, and !l! the dishes prepared for lunch. The situation faced by
the late-comers is pitiable - as soon as they come, racing from HSB
or ME and MH, a long queue awaits them - finally when they get to
the catering counter after a long wait, plates may be unavailable.
It is like keeping a deer's mouth tied in front of a fresh haystack.
If plates are available, there are no chapaties. If both plates and
chapaties are available, then there'll be a shortage of chairs. If
one has been successful so far, and one gets a chance to be seated at
the dining table, one or more of the dishes is sure to be over. If
by GOd's/Mess Manager's grace, all foodstuffs are available, there'll
invariably be no tumblers on the table - if tumblers are there, the

