2

CAMPASTIMES

MINITALE

CAMP
THE

of

end
the final exam calls for a
celel?ration. After weeks of sustained
tension, one tries to find some way or another
of letting off steam; of unwinding oneself.
One attempts to forget the recent past com~
pletely, for worry is after all a useless
emotion.· So, soon after the exams Gopal
and his friends decided to return to a state
of normalcy by going on a camp for a few
days. They chose a secluded spot far from
any town or even village, in a wooded part
of Madras.
Gopal of course, was the leader of the
gang. Voluble and opinionated but unfortunately not very beight, he had once startled
the learned Senate by saying earnestly th2t
his favourite literary work was 'The Case of
the Blue~eyed Blonde.' Yet inexplicably, he
was the sun around whom the others revolved.
Gopal's right-hand man was Chikku, one of
those permanently-serious fellows. The look
on his face would remain exactly the same
whether he was reading' Hamlet, The Prince
of Denmark' or 'Dennis, the Menace.' But it
was Chikku's good sense that tempered and
held in check the wild exuberance of some of
the others in the group. Then there was
Kumar, a · superb sportsman and athlete.
The day the exams ended they got together
in Gopal's room to discuss and make plans.
The colourful conversation flitted easily from
Bridge to Gopal's exploits in the History
class; from Nancy Sinatra's voice to Elizabeth
Taylor's husbands; from Marlene Dietrich's
age to the mating habits of the Praying Mantis.
When eventually it came to rest on the subject
of the camp, everyone was serious.
It was unanimously agreed upon that the
camp was not to be made soft and easy; that
it was not to be allowed to degenerate into a
girlish picnic. The life they would live was
to be hard and exacting. Hiking, hill-climbing, swimming~ simple life but adventurous
and demanding. They would cook their .own
food, they would sleep under the trees; they
would ..•• the interminable list was cut short
by Kumar calling for 'constructive suggestions '. As the originator of the idea, Kumar
felt that it was upon him that the work of
organization devolved. The first constructive' suggestion came from Gopal and was a
bit of a shock.
'We better take helluva lot of tinned stuff.'
There was a chorus of protests. Hadn't
they just decided that aU the food they were
to eat, they would cook themselves?
'Ya, Ya, but who knows cooking?' asked
Chikku, who had a habit of being painfully
realistic. After a guilty silence somebody
volunteered hopefully that, he could make
coffee, only to be told promptly not to make
any more attempts at humour. In the sudden
gloom that had descended, only Kumar was
optimistic.
'Oh, come on man, we can manage.
Cooking can't be that tough. Anyway you
won't die if you don't eat Sambar and Rasam
for a few days.'
Unfortunately, ~o one was convinced.
< And remember there are no hotels in,
that country-place', pur sue d Chikku
relentlessly.
'
Now positively alarmed, 'Gopal, pleaded
again.
'Let's take a little tinned stuff, I say, just
a little.'
Unpleasant visions of a diet of boiled rice
and boiled eggs three times a day for seven
days prompted the company to agree without
delay. Besides the rice, wheat, and vegetables a limited quantity of tinned food would
not after all be a violation of the spirit of the
camp, they convinced themselves. Chikku
made a list of articles to be bought.
SardineS-tins 14
Sausages-tins 14
Baked beans-tins X4
Bread-loaves 21
Orange Squash-4 bottles.
A major point having been settled, the
conversation lapsed again into engrossing
trivialities before Kumar brought up the
second important question-that of bed~ing.

Disillusioned by the trend of events he
did not remind his friends of their original
resolution that the camp should not be a
si~y affair. Looking pointedly at Gopal, he
saId merely,
, Remember' we'll be walking to the campsite
and so we can't carry much-say a bedsheet each.'
But Gopal who was never at a loss for ideas
or words felt otherwise.
, It'll be cold at night, so we'll have to take
blankets.'
'Don't be silly you-, since when .has it
become cold in Madras in the summer?'
'But listen Kumar, th~re's helluva lot of
dew in the nights. Okay, okay listen, give
me a chance man, even if there isn't any dew
we can always use the blankets for lying on
can't we?' True, but a blanket each would
add considerably to the load to be carried,
pointed out someone to whom even the
prospect of walking was extremely unattractive. A solution to this problem was found
by Chikku who suggested that one or two of
the party go on ahead by bus, taking the
luggage with them, to be followed on foot by
the rest. The idea was received with relief
and approval. Now that the quantity of
luggage did not seem to matter, the iri:e~
pressible Gopal came up with yet another
brilliant suggestion.
• Let's take a quilt and a pillow each, both
small ones, of cOUISe.'
, Take a bloody spring cot also, a small
one of course.' But the infuriated Kumar's
sarcasm was lost on Gopal. Finally as a
compromise it was decided that only pillows
were to be taken along. The second list was
then made; blankets, pillows, sheets etc.
The discussion in which Kumar indignantly refused to take . further part, meandered
along, covering a host of minor d.etails.
Considerable time was spent in squabbling,
over the necessity of slippers (in addition to
shoes), before they took up the controversial
question of the transistor. Although the majority considered it a luxury. Gopal seemed to
feel that it was indispensable. One couldn't
live without film music for a whole week,
could one? Too tired to argue and also for the
sake of a little quiet, the others agreed that
the transistor was an absolute necessity. Late
in the night, spent and weary, they reached
the very last point someone's suggestion that
a pack of cards might be a good idea. Objection came surprisingly from Gopal. His tone
was hurt.
'Whl\t a thing to suggest man, we're not
going to sit around all day playing cards
are we ?'
No indeed. They, led by Gopal. were
going to live a tough, unsheltered life deep
in the bosom of nature.
They were to leave early the next morning
so that they would have covered a considerable
distance before the heat became oppr,essive.
Gopal, who was to spend the night in the city
promised to reach the hostel well in time.
Before 4 next morning, the seven campers
assembled at the gate of the hostel. Contem~
plating the adventurous .week that lay ahead,
What a
they shivered with excitement.
relief this would be after the frenzied tutorial
to periodiclli existence of the past months 1
This camp would heal the wounds inflicted
by the final exam I The next week would be
refreshing, reinvigorating! The'\-...• their
rosy thoughts were interrupted by the arrival
of a sleek Chevrolet. Gopal. sitting in the
driver's seat smiled apologetically.
'Hey, listen guys, you know what, listen
Kumar, my pop insisted we go by car.'
The last link with Kumar's original conception of the camp was now severed. But
before he could protest against this latest outrage, Gopal continued placatingly.
'Suppose we got sunstroke by walking most
of the way, we'll be sick when we reach the
camp, isn't it r he argued with admirable
logic, , Then we won't be able to stand up
to the hardships there. would we? would
we? Tell me.' 'I could quite . cheerfully
strangle you,' thought Kumar. Flushed with
triumph, Gopal pointed to the man sitting
beside him.
.
'This,' he announced, is our cook.'
--:-S. R. NA~R.

[ October, 1968

, Underground' Film..Maker
Interested in People
(exclu$~''iJe to 'Campa5times' from. the US/S)

When Andy W~rhol reeently paid a visit to
Iowa State Unh(ersity, Ames, he brought
along an hour's worth of his new film, called
he Stars.' It was just as well that he
dIdn't bring all of it-the film runs for 2S
hou;rs. ~d it consists of two reels of film
proJ~cted s~multaneously onto one screen with
a . hlg~ pItched psychedelic sound track.
According to Mr;;.Warhol, any of the 75 reels
o~ film can be IDte~changed with another
wlthout changing the effect.
. ~dY,Warhol is an experimenter, a speciabst In underground' movies. He doesn't
care about plots in his pictures-in fact
he makes a conscious effort to avoid it. Hi;
man~ger, Paul Morrissey, said: 'We have
noth,ing to say and we're not making money.
We Just make movies of people. Too much
thought is best avoided.'
~r. Warhol, an artist, started his film expenments because • people are interested in
'other people. They want to see how others react
in life's different situations'. And while the
~ameras. of the Iowa State students were click
109 at. him, he ~as also taking pictures of them.
This. experimental film-maker is gaining a
reputation as a lecturer at a number of college
campuses aCross the country and consider'
able notoriety at some.

':r

ANOTHER R1VER FLOWS INTO lIT
On x8th of August, which was a suspenseful day, weatherwise, Smt. Sushila Ramachandran, the first lady a'Ia campus, inaugurated ~e .elev~nth hostel in the campus. Among
the dlstmgulshed guests was the Director of
the Institute, Dr. Ramachandran.
'
The function started at 7.00 p.m. when
the chief guest drew aside the curtain that
covered the tablet 'MANDAKINI', to the
applause of the large gathering of guests
and residents.
.
T.he Director, speaking on behalf of Smt.
Sustla Ramachandran, declared the ' hostel
open and spoke for a short time. He regretted that he had never stayed in a hostel in.
his student life. He stressed that a hostel
should be half way between a house and ' a
hotel. For tIle students to have the right
atmosphere, Smt. Ramachandran planted
two saplings in the compound and lit a
kuthuvillakku.
The entertainment programme was next
on the agenda:, It was very much appreciated
by everyone. /' It included a very crisp quiz
in which everyone participated.
The general secretary gave the vote of thanks.
Thus came to an end the colourful
inaugural function of a grey and pink
Mandakini.
-Campastimes News.

LITERARY ROUND
UP
Once again the literary committee was first
to commence its activities for the year.
The annual quiz was held on 9th September. Sixty two contenders took the qualifying
round and sixteen entered the finals. Prof.
Ramani conducted the .quiz. His many
questions were equally distributed among the
topics he covered. Again, Parameshwaran
was in full form. He answered the questions,
in his inimitable way and even those who have
seen him in the quizzes in the past'years, did not
expect him to name the three famous furniture
designers of the lIth century. Many others.
answered questions which were really tough.
A notable feature of this year's qui'z was
the participation of a number of new comers.
Considering that it was M. S. Srinivasan's
,debut, he fared well.
The ranking was-Parameshwaran (29 pts}
Chatterjee (9 pts) Srinivasan (8~ pts) Godbole
(St pts) and Ratneshwar (5 pts).
-H. SINGH.

