4

IT is possible for celotain unenlightened
souls to think that Richard Gordon has had
the last funny, sordid or just plain sick word
on .doctors.
Possible, but not probable
because you see; he was a very handicapped
man. He never set foot in the seven hundred
luxurious deer infested' acres of IIT I
mean Richard Gordon, not the Doctor.
The latter avocation has most decidedly
cut inroads into our lives if not our hearts~
Indeed, if the indications can be rightly read,
the purveyors of cures and palliatives are
very much here to stay. We do not deny the
need, the necessity and the usefulness of their
profession. Ours is not to pour ridicule over
such a noble institution. Merely to ask why
it does1l't behave the way noble institutions
should.
The hospital, as it is sometimeseuphemistically called, is strategically located at . close
propinquity 'to the two worst conceivable
hazards in the life of the average IITian
- - - the workshop and Knick-Knack. It
has thc proper air of disinfected efficiency and
awe inspiring competence, (~e hospital, ~ot
Knick-Knack). As you walk tn, a spattenng
of signs suddenly crops up to show that the
hospital means business. One s~ys, ~ Operation Theatre,' and as you peek In w1th what
you hope is proper humility, you see a
dignified-looking chair standing on 3 le~,
,struggling to give the impression that all It
, needs is a patient to go into the opera~ing
business. Another says • X-Ray' and pomts
importantly into an empty room ,vith a water
tap and sink, trying hard to look like an X-Ray
apparatus. Other signs such as the huge r:d
triangle and the Illue Cross have been dIScreetly removed, so we won't say anything
about them.
The Doctor; .as we must allude to him for
want of a better word, walks into his important
smroundings bright and early at 10-00 a.m.
(people aren't supposed to get sick earlier
than that). He wipes the perspiration from
his forehead (that blasted corridor is really
too long I) and sits down for no other
discernible purpose than to ride up to a better
economic altitude. He has in his lush. office
all that a doctor could ever desire--except perhaps a · couple of those pretty
things in white uniforms. He has to · deny

[ October, ·1968

CAMPA S TIM E S

himself the extra bit of starched efficiency
in view of the stiff competition that must
inevitably come from the student population.
For all his failings one certainly cannot accuse
him of short-sightedness.
Health is unlike any other' commodity in
its marketing arrangement. We do not shop
for health as we would say for fruits or
clothing. The tendency is for the patient to
want and the doctQr to prescribe the best.
And our Doc has some very fixed notions of
what the best is for all and sundry. Using a
colour-code, his panacea boils down to 9
yellow tablets with a sprinkling of brown
ones. Or in extreme cases a dash of white
or pink (depending upon the whim of the
moment) may be added for good measures.
One of the reasons for having a hospital in
the campus should be to give every student
a medical check-up at least once a year. And
I mean a tlzorough medical check-up, not just
a cursory glance at t4e tonsils and nose. It
should be. done systematically, hostel-wise.
But, somehow, nobody seems to have thought
of that one yet.
True the hospital gives you an inoculation
or a vaccination now and then as the season
demands it. But is it enough? Doesn't it
stand to reason that any hospital worthy of
its name should at least as a minimum be
equipped for an eye test and a dental checkup? As things stand here, it's not possible
to get an ordinary punch in the nose taken
care of. The day they successfully operate
upon a corn will, I am sure, be hailed as a
day with capital 'd'.
Not so long ago, a final year Chemical
student sustained some minor burns in the
laboratory, and was rushed to the hospital.
The doc was at his usual best. ' Quick: he
said with what can only be termed as instant
diagnosis, • take him to the V.H.S. Hospital.'
In this case the injuries were not very serious
and somehow we made the journey to the
V.H.S. But there is going to be a day when
a student might need immediate medical
attention. What's the doc going to do then?
Yell for his Mamma ?
Undoubtedly, the doc's one mission in life
seems to be to give all his fellow practitioners
in the city a dosc of all the much publicised
IITian. He listens to all your problems and
symptoms very patiently with medical knowhow simply oozing out of his gills. He puts
the stethoscope in all the right places, clucks
his tongue in the accepted medical fashion,
and then, after just the right amount of pause,
offers an explanation with veiled· discretion as
though the ailment was of a definitcnature,
one to be mentioned only with lowered eyelids. As a bright afterthought he suggests
you go see a doctor in town. Very helpfully
he jots down a name and address adding that
his consultation fees are extremely low, only
Rupees Thirty or sOo
An interesting episode is that of the mess
server who fell from the Narmada Hostel roof
last year. It was late in the night but luckily,
a student chanced to hear the fall. In the
activity that ensued a man was sent to get
doctor as fast as possible on the only vehicle
available, a motorcycle.
The doctor was at home all right. However,
frantic efforts had to be made to wake up
the Registrar and get the permission for the
Institute- car while the mass lay dying.

It pains one to say it, but it's a fact our·
hospital is not what one would like it to be.
It's something like a medical roundabout
which surreptitiously steers you, for aU you
know, towards a fellow peddler of a cough
cure. It's a mere facade whose entire raison d'
etre is to issue sick f certificates. When the
doc was approached for a medical fitness
certificate by a student in connection with a
job, at first he was plainly startled. It was
such a strange request I Pulling himself up
to his full medical stature he announced,
• My duty is not to issue medical certificates.'
Thereby brilliantly leaving unsaid what ex~ctly
are his duties.
'

At times even a boy scout is of more help
than our eminent pill pusher. From, the
hospital one always walks out a disillusioned
man. "Viser perhaps, but never a cured man.
-ARVIND JOHARI.

OUCH!

f& is for Appav(,o - - as freshers we met,
jlt\ is
QI: is
i9 is
~ is

for Booing anything unset;
for Crows, the Cat, the Cow,
for marks unspeakably low;
Ehzhamalai - - the North can't pronounce,
:Jf is for Flicks nO.t without frowns.
~ is for Gear, for the Workshop. I mean,
~ is for 'Hosh and his family~planning
scheme,
While
31 is for IIT with students from the cream.
Y is for Juvenile and also for Jargon,
~ is for Kelly minus his organ.
'J. is for Lambda and also for Laughter,
~ is for Morons, periodicals-after.
:J1. is for Numbers you are to imagine,
$ is for Opels smashed up and in.
~ is for Practs not without cooking
<€t is for Questions meant not for .asking.
~ is for Ragging the freshers missed,
~ is for Swimming when • IT' is finished,
ijj; is for Tl!-torials and Those - -, who slog
aU day
i!l is for Us who cog away.
P is for Viva - - you don't know a thing!
W is for Workshop, we can keep on
boasting• .
is for X's Bachelors of Technology,
!! is for • Yaar' a common allergy.
and
i! is for Zig-zag, the Campus' energy.
-GoPAL LONGFELLOW

*

