October, 1968]
OUTDOOR CLUB

ROCK·CLIMBING(itt Olze easy lesson)
• Rock Acrobats' come in all sizes, sexes
and ages.
Rock-Climbing is a prerequisite for mountain climbing. It can also be a good week-end
activity for people far removed from high
mountains. It develops bodily co-ordination
and provides enough challenges of the • Man
against Nature' type to set it apart from
milder activities such as Cricket, Hockey, etc.
It is neither more dangerous nor more difficult
to learn than other skills such as swimming.
Learners of rock-climbing need very little
by way of personal equipment. The oldest
pair of thick cotton slacks that one has and a
good pair of tennis shoes are essential; the
nature of the beast is such that saris are taboo.
Optional, but advisable are a pair of wicketkeeper's inner gloves.
Let's say then that we have the following:
(I) A few novitiate climbers: A, B, C ...
(2) A rocky area with a few simple climbs.
(3) Someone who knows something about
climbing (X)
(4) A good climbing rope (Nylon-'7/16")
of about 30 metres length.
The first thing we learn is to tie the bowline, the most commonly used knot in rockclimbing. (Figure I) Take one free-end of

the rope· and pass it around the body after
just making a loop in front. Then do as
shown. The knot should neither be too tight
nor too loose but just comfortably around the
body. For those who find themselves on the
rocks without figure I, there is a memory-aid
which runs as follows:
The rabbit (free-end) comes out of the hole
(the loop), runs around the tree (the rest
of the rope), and back into the hole (the
loop).
For those with a poor memory and without
figure I, prior practice is advised; however
it is quite easy to learn.
Once the how-line is mastered the next
thing is to know how to belay. Belaying is
the art of holding a climber on the rock face
so that he (a) will feel secure while climbing
and (b) will not get hurt due to an accidental slip. There are many types of belays
but the most secure is the sitting-hip belay.
For this two persons are required, a belayer
and a climber. The climber ties himself into
the rope in a bow-line and the belayer (for the
present, the instructor) ascends on an easy
slope to ledge at a convenient distance.
There he sits down and jams his feet against
a rock or out-cropping and passes the rope
from the climber around his body. The right
hand is the brake l;1and and the left hand, the
guide hand. (For left-handers, vice versa).
It can be easily demonstrated that the brake
hand alone is sufficient to hold one or tWo
climbers on the rope if the maximum amount
of frictional resistance of the rope on the rocks
and around the body is utilised. The guide
hand is used as the name implies: to take up
and give slack to the climber below.
Once the belayer and climber are at their
respective stations on the rope a few practice
belays are called for. The step-wise procedure
is as follows:
(I) Vociferous Exchange of Signals between
the belayer (X) and the climber (A). In
English"". these are:
(A) : On Belay? ?
(X) : On Belay I
• Pending translation into Hindi and/or Regional
Language by Experts and Approval by th e
Appropriate Committee.

2

CAMPASTIMES
(A) : Test Belay!
(X) : Test Belay I
(A) : Testing!
(2) A climbs up a few steps and deliberately
falls 1
(3) X presses firmly with his feet against
the rocks and brings his right hand across his
hips towards his left. Presto! A is stopped in
his fall quite easily and is not hurt at alL
Neither does X feel any great strain, in fact
hardly a strong pull on his arms.
(4) A and X are now mutually confident of
their team-work. A starts climbing and X
takes up the slack slowly never once removing
his right hand from the braking position.
A reaches X. X can now, if he wants to, go
on higher.
The next step is to learn how to climb.
Figure 2 demonstrates one essential principle
of climbing-the three~point suspension, i.e.
two hands and a foot Or two feet and a hand
must always be on the rock. The fourth limb

is used to feel for the next hold. The other
essential principle is to manoeuver one's
Centre of Gravity within the chosen three
points. To accurately determine the C. G.
one needs a helper, a plumb bob and a pencil.
The helper, of course, must know how to
calculate the C. G. of irregular shapes. However, for most purposes the body seems to do
very well for itself with the knowledge of the
security of the rope, and a good belayer above.
Note that Figure 2 does not show a rope.
It should have been there. It does show
however, what a balance-climb is. This is
one where the climber, following good
practice, climbs with his arms below the head,
a,~d uses his powerful thigh and calf muscles for
support more than his arm muscles.
Figure 3 shows a more advanced climb, the
lie-back. If the rock has a crack or fissure
not wide enough to get into but enough to
jam one's hands in, then this climb is used.

It consists in kicking against the far side
with the feet and pulling on the near edge of
the crack. The belay is from below and
therein hangs a tale (no pun intended).
Climbing is usually done in teams .of three,
consisting of the leader, the middle man and
the end man. The leader, being one who
leads, cannot be belayed from above but has
to be belayed from below. This type of
belaying is safe, though not as safe as a belay
from above. It follows that leaders have to be
exceptionally good and confident climbers.
Figure 4 shows a chimney-climb. Here the
person jams the whole of his body into the
chimney or fissure in the rock face and uses
the . frictional resistance of the body against
the walls for support. The climbing is done
by inching upwards by a rubbing motion.
It may be remembered that in figure 2 we

5
talked about a three-point suspension, approximately five fingers or five toes (albeit enclosed
by sho~s) as one of the points. This was an

H~ ~~Hi.
i~

4-

Engineering approximation entirely without
rigour. In the chimney climb the treatment
adopted is one borrowed from Modern Physics
and therefore more elegant. We carry out a
Lorentz transformation on the human back
after first drawing a series of lines on it.
(Checked shirts worn by the climber help I).
After a sufficient number of these operations it
can easily be shown that the back is a point
at the extremely slow speeds used in climbing.
It remains to teach the new enthusiast how
to get. down once he has reached the top.
For thls we refer to figure 5. This is known
as Rappeling, and is the quickest and safest
way to come down whenever possible. Shown
in the figure is a body-rappel. The step-wise
body-rappel procedure follows:
(r) Double the rope round a rock or something that will hold a climber in a tree, close
enough to the next lower platform or ledge.
(2) Straddle the rope and for right handers
the rope goesilacross the right hip and the
left shoulder and back to the right hand.
This is the braking hand (Left handers, vice
versa).

(3) Kick firmly against the rock and lean
back on the rope while sliding down. Use
right hand to brake the motion, using as much
friction area of :the body as possible. The left
hand is the guide hand and is used for support
and balance.
(4) Once ~t ground level, extricate yourself
and puU the rope to the ground, around
the tree.
Some additional notes on the procedure are
necessary. Notice the almost perpendicular
position of the climber on the wall. This
minimises the chance of slipping down without
control. It is left as an exercise to the budding climber to draw the Force Diagram for
this system. (Hint; Do not use the' frictionless', 'weightless' approximation). Gloves
should be worn during rappeling, otherwise
the hands get rope burns on them. The
temperature profile of the human hand without gloves during rappeling call be calculated
based on the Fourier-Poisson Equation.
Eager climbers attempting an experimental
check should take . along .a table of Laplace
Transforms and a bottle of vaseline... ,
Well, well, .well, so we can climb, now.
Isn't it fun?" But one should not rest on
one's laurels. Continue on your own using
the same judicious mixture of practical work
backed by sound theory. We close by pointing out that by substituting the feminine
gender for the masculine, whenever applicable,
the article can be used to teach rock climbing
to . ladies. This is. in keeping with cur.::ent
thinking on women's education •.... The article
has been approved by the Central Non':'
Himalayan Sub·Montane Institute (Southern
Region) and the All India Institution of Nylon
Rope Artists.

-C. V.

SESHADRI.

