[October, 1968

CAMPASTIMES

6

Letters to the Editor
Fractured and Fracturing

EDITORIAL
Dead End
Never before, perhaps, has Campastimes
ca.used so great an apprehension among the
veterans who have chosen to • stay out of it'
this year. The fear is understandable but
needless. If every straight thinking IITian
realises that Campastimes is the only medium
through which the outs~de ~~rld views u.s,
and if consequently, he IS wtlhng to help In
his own way, he will be the prime mover.
It does not matter how capable the publica~
tions committee is, for there is no exceptional
skill involved' nor does it matter how
hard the co~ittee · works: it is no good
hunting for articles when the potential
writers refuse to co· operate. What matters
is how keen you are on maintaining the
standard of Campastime.r. If 'you are will~ng
to take this task on, Campastlmes has 1l0thlOg
to worry about.

At Cross Roads
There has always been discord between
the four-legged ruminant species from the
Deer park and the two-wheeled machines in
the campus. 'Who is the ruler of the
road?' Extremist suggestions like ' Ban the
motorcycle' or 'Drive the deer away' are
impractical. On the other hand, any compromise between these two extremes may
not be a solution at all.
Looking at the problem from other angles
is imperative-especially since the de~r are on
the lookout for motor cylces to mtercept
them. The only immediate solution is to
advise the riders to decrease throttle on
campus roads. Atleast then t~e mot?rcyc~ists
will have time enough to deCIde whIch dItch
to drive into when a deer suddenly crosses
in front of them.
The year '68-'69 promises to be a bright
one for IIT in the field of sports. Enthusiasm for sports has never before run so high
in lIT. One earnestly hopes this trend will
continue and pay rich dividends at the forthcoming inter lIT meet.

Sir,
I wish to bring to the notice of the authorities concerned the poor condition of many
of the two seater desks in HSB class rooms.
The seats are either broken or completely
missing.
Again, the three-seater desks in rooms like
132 HSB seem to have been designed for abnormal human shapes. The awkward angle of
the seats and the crammed · leg space is a
regular nuisance.
It is not too late to look into this matter and
remedy the defects.
Yours etc.
C. S. KRISHNAN.

On Being Serious
Sir,
Many people in IIT resent seriousness. I
am greatly surprised that the so-called cream
of Indian youth must consider it a stigma to
be serious. ' I am not suggesting that we
should totally shun the frivolous and sink
into the serious. I am merely expressing the
opinion that certain issues require serious
thought and deserve careful attention.
We may consider, to begin with, one's own
philosophy of life. Not many people here, I
am afraid, have evolved a philosophy of life.
At least if they have done so, they prefer not
to acknowledge it. This is not to say that
one should go around publicising one's philosophy of life. What is regrettable is the fact
that the people feel ashamed to admit the
necessity for evolving one's own philosophy.
After all a majority of students here are in
their most important and impressionable years
of their lives, and a rapid evolutionary process
must be going on in their minds. The development of one's own particular attitude to
things in life is bound to be a natural outcome
of this process. Granting the high I. Q. of
the average IITian, the product ffi:ust be. a
serious thoughtful young man, certamly With
a sense of humour. But what do we see?
Even if the young man is thoughtful and
serious at heart a painful attempt is made by
him to pass ~ff for a lighthearted youth.
There is nothing fundamentally objectionable
in a lighthearted youth. But whe~ a serious
young man tries to pass off for a hghthearted
youth, the implied hypocri.sy is loathsome.
The obsession for the frIvolous and the zeal
with which seriousness is avoided are in
evidence in more than one facet of life in the
campus. Let us take, for example, Campastimes. 'What shall I write for Campastimes? '
• Something light yar ' •
(COItti1zued OIt p. 13 col. I)

By the Way
The October showers; wiIllend a new freshness to the grass, and bfing few more flowers
to brighten our gardens-at least, so we hope.
At least as welcome ,will be the cessation of
the intolerable afternoon heat, which makes
walking to class after lunch a refined and
hideous torture. Since the powers that be
have strategically ordered the bus timings, an
increasingly large number of robust, strapping
violets, that shrink ever so coyly from the
afternoon sun, may be noticed congregated at
the Ganga entrance at about ten minutes after
one. It follows that the bus is inevitably late
and incredibly crowded, but immeasurably
helpful. Those afternoon rides are obviously
here to stay.

a

«<

,..

•

There was rejoicing when the Staff Club
arranged to show' Chemmeen' at OAT, and
the film was greatly enjoyed by all. But one
incident marred the evening. As we strolled
up to the south-west entrance, we were appalled
to see a gentleman-or, at any rate, an adult
human male-::-calmly i:easing his bladder just
outside the entrance. :1 Even one brief glimpse
proved him an IITian-no Velacherian he.
Well, he might have done it for a wager; he
might passionately advocate Gandhi's views
on the fertilisation of land; he might have had
one or more excellent reasons which can be
dredged up with a little ingenuity. He might,
and again he might not. This speculation on
his rationale is sordid and unrewarding. It
will suffice to say that with more conventional
stations of operation in the basement of OAT,
in the HSB a stone's throwaway, and in
hostels too numerous to list, such an action
betrays a coarseness of nature and an utter
disregard for common decency and hygiene,
sadly out of keeping with the ideals of higher
education. If this is the sort of example we
set, there is no point in complaining of the
general carelessness,' boorishness and lack of
hygiene of the great Indian Public; indeed,
we ought to be grateful that is not a great
deal worse. As for the unknown warrior himself, I beg to inform him that such public
exhibitions of his armoury are not really
necessary. I am sure that no one will grudge
our hero any PLO;; room he cares to claim.
IITians have always allowed other IITians a
generous margin for the exercise of personal
eccentricities, but treating the OAT as an
extension of the PLO room aforesaid is going
too far. Between idiosyncrasy and idiocy there
exists a wide and substantial distinction, and
this distinction must firmly be imposed on
those denizens of our community who feel the
irresistible urge to illustrate Confucius'
concept of the Lower Man.
The obstacles faced by those who would
fain keep the Institute banner flying high
are unenviable. Those who represent the
Institute in any extra-curricular activity
naturally miss classes when called to the field
of action. Attendance is niggardly recompense,
for there awaits the returning heroes an awesome pile of notes to be · copied, problems to
be solved, tutorials to be submitted. As if
this were not bad enough, they have to
'sacrifice' the periodicals they miss. The very
least that can be (,done in return for the unstinting way in which they lavish their time
on the Institute's reputation, is to give them
the poor substitute of a re-test. This is imperative if, as I sincerely hope, we want to
be known as something better than a bunch
of inanimate swots.

•

•

-So

•

PARAMESHWARAN.

Articles are illvitrd
for publicatio1l

t1l

Can1pastime~

and the Institute Magazine.

Please hand them over to your
Publications Representative.

