Oc;t~ber.·. 1.968 ]

CAM PAST I ME S

So much water has flown under the bridge
since I dished out the last cup of tea more
than a month ago. Like, where there was · no
gymkhana, we have a gymkhana. All the
secretaries have been elected, ducked into the
dirty }i'} pond outside the Building Sciences
Block Ilnd made to stand us coffee at KnickKnack-that's Gymkhana initiation for you;
and keep this in mind when you stand for
elections next year.
, Of all the words of tongue or pen,
The ones that cause an IITiali worry,'
are the words-there is a movie at the O.A.T,
tonight I What I mean is that, of latc the
Film Club isn't what it used to be. Asked for
their opinions of their Club, many chaps get
cheesed off and go around behaving like the
knight who had a rough time at the hands of
La · Belle dame Sans Merd. I, for one, feel
so low after our movies, I call walk under a
cockroach. It is such a long time since we
saw a complete movie, really. Most movies
dished out to us these days are minced like
Hamburger meat, or if you want a better example, like my caricatures on the editorial
board members after the editorial board member gets through with it. Movies are cut up
so bad, there is no perceivable connection between one scene and the next. Like you arc
now watching a pie-splattered Cary Grant
throw a blanc-mange at , Doris Day, silently
cursing him for not picking a flower-vase or
sornething harder and before you know if the
pie has made the · mark there are strange
sounds coming off the sound system, a splash
of colour flashing past, and you .are now '
watching a suave, business-like Cary boy
trying to get fresh with his secretary. The
matr0ll:s in the audience haven't quite sighed
to the~r hearts' content for Cal'y, and the
young chaps with whom the secretary seemed
to have made the grade hayen't quite finished
their, whistling, when Doris Day is shown
parading around, dressed as Mata Hari, singing 'When I was just a little girl,' (that must
have been so long ago, you'd have ' to consult
history-books to know what happened), and
just when you are wandering if perchance, her
father had forgotten to get her tonsils removed, you get the rest of the pie-fight!
This sort of mental exercise, trying to piece
the story like a jigsaw puzzle is O.K. once in
a while, but after the umpteenth time, it loses
its charm.
What with the (n+l) cuts, the movies end
real fast these days-the really long ones
ending by 9-30 p.m. Like Bob Hope said, if
you take two rabbits wi~h you for the movie,
when the show ended you would still have
only two rabbits! And, we hardly ev.er see a
side-reel these days. Till the coming of the
35 mm. movies, Deutschland Spiegels were
often more popular than the feature film · itself. They provided you with enough slick
chicks and shmaltzy jazz music-the jug of
wine would have completed the picture more
or less •. It is so long since they showed the
last 'Spiegel,' I wonder if I have spelt it
right'
Velacherians being more gentlemen-ofleisure than we are, arrive early and take the
seats lit vantage points. We who tool in at
8 p.m . . have to sit at such ,a n angle that we
catch only moviexCos&! Gate crashing is one
thing, gate--crashing and t~king the best places
-is something else again.
. Recently they showed • In Search of the
Castaways.' Probably soon they will show
, 'l'he 101 Dalmatians' or' Pinnochio '. "Even
• Cinderella' ana ,'The Sle~ping . Beauty' are
ruled Qut because ' they involve .a lot of sex,
and .if ~omeb.ody $uggel?ted · , Snow White and

3

-

.

the Seven Dwarfs,' he would probably be
told, 'Tchaw! Polyandreh my deah!
Why I You're positively vulgah I'
The last Adult movie-I don't mean a
movie .sP.orting ~n (A) certificate, but I mean
a movie m keepmg with the age-group that
throngs t~e O.A.T. on Saturday nights, we
~aw was
Moment to Moment.' After that
It's been a series of exploits of Hayley mills,
Tuesday Weld and such other kiddos each
with sick, holier-than-thou morals' and even
sicker pouts, which they no doubt feel, makes
them look sexy.
T~e .behaviour of some chaps during the
mOVies IS even sadder than the dearth of good
complete movies. I can't understand why
some . blokes are going round trying to give
Dan;1n the. breaks. One \yould . say that
they re passmg through theIr second childhood, if it hadn't been for the fact that
they're passing through their first I
Every time a. guy and a girl are shown on
the screen together, you don't have to let fly
, a whistle. W:e.have all notic~d them together,
and are awaltmg results just as eagerly as
you are. Moreover it shows a total lack of
manly understanding to whistle and scream
ever~time they show a kiss ora couple in bed.
We all know the facts of life and shouldn't
get excited over these small things, see ?
The explanation of this juvenile behaviour
may lie in what I heard one bloke tell another
af~er a recent movie, C Dey, I go to the
Cmema . to release my exhibitions'. What
puzzles me is that he didn't look the C exhibition ' releasing type in the first place I
If ~ may have my say, I would blame part
of thIS phenomenon on our teaching system.
Mind you, I am not airing any personal prejudices, but just putting forward some facts
and a hypothesis.
A few days ago during a boring lecture, the
Chappie sitting next to me asked me something. Before the poor fellow had finished
half the sentence, the lecturer . was yelling,
, You two I Come to the front row! !' This,
mind you, in the final year class of an institute
of higher technological studies '. I tried
pulling the old lIT ian stunt of turning around
and looking at the ·chaps behind me. Chances
are even, that they too being equally bored were
upto some mischief and the wrath can be
safely channelised in that direction. However,
it was , only when the Yahoo repeated the
sentence and pointed an accusing finger my
way, that the moment of realisation dawned
on me-it was not quite unlike the poignant
moment when Johnny Weismuller realized
that he was playing Tarzan and not Jane.
Anyway I didn't arguc, for this particular
Chappie gave me the impression that if I
did, I would probably end up in the corner
facing the w~l1, or standing on the chair in the
last row, with my arms outstreched. So I
got up and went to the first row, sure that the
day he said or did anything even remotely in
keeping with his age and not his I.Q., they
would declarc a national holiday and set
church·bells ringing all over the country.
Now, the trouble in dealing with a juvenile
is that in no time at all you are behaving like
a juvenile yourself.
One way of solving the problem would be
to off-set the staff-juveniles with adulttheme movies, if you see wilat I mean. If
one sees such a movie during the week-end,
one goes away in the belief that one can now
handle a hundred lecturers who want one to
corne sit in the front row I
An uncle of mine who set up a ramshackle
movie hall in a remote country-side tells me
that when the films gets cut and the show is
interrupted,
the country-bumpkins who
frequent the hall, switch on their torches and
direct the beams onto the screen. The idea,
I believe, is to' flush out the characters, who
they believe are hiding behind the screen. The
fact that many torches are switched on and
the screen is flooded with light every time we
have an interruption, shows that the name and
fame of !IT has reached the rural India and
,that We have quite a few recruits from these
parts here 1 For heaven's sake will somebody
explain to them that the images can find
their way back to the screen without their
having to show the light!

7

Ramaswamy Receives

,Invention Award
Mr. R. Ramaswamy of the Chemistry department has been awarded a sum of Rs. I 000
by the Inventions' Promotion Board.
'
The award winning process relates to the
electrochemical preparation of Dialdehyde
starch, an important tanning agent. The
~e~hod makes use of a simple cell design and
mdlgenous raw materials.
This would
facilitate easy installation of large scale units.
Samples of the product have been tested by
the Central Leather Research Institute and
~oun~ quite su!table for tanning. Because of
It~ hIgh adheSive nature, Dialdehyde starch
WIll find:several other uses like impartin"
high 'Yet-$trength to paper and other fibrous
materzals.

Mr. R. Ramaswamy

Mr. Ramaswamy graduated from the
Madras University in 1956. He joined IIT
Madras ~n July 62, and took his master's
degree itlr '66. He has registered .himself for
Ph.D. here, and is currently working on
, Mechanistic study· of reactions by Electrochemical techniques.'
Based . on · these
investigations he has presented two . research
papers at the seminars organized by the
Central Electrochemical Research Institute,
Karaikudi.
We wish him success in his endeavour.
-Campastiln~r.

That much about the Film Club. Now a
word about the fences and all that sort of
thing. Last year barbed wire fences we.r eput
up' around hostels, around the temple, around
houses and parks, around----you name
it, they've fenced it in. , If chaps passing out
of here are psycho-analysed and it is .found
that they suffer from claustrophobia or have
a feeling of always being closed-in, you and
I know -what caused it, right? Having run
out of :ibarbed wire do·e sn't seem to have
dampened the enthusiasm of the fencers-in.
Thorny bushes now mar and blot the landscape where barbed wire doesn't. The Girls'
Hostel has the distinction of sporting two
such lines of defence. The idea, I suppose,
is that determined Lotharios, who have overcome the first one, run into the second, say.
'@*! @@-tt' I', and turn back disappointed. The whole point protecting the gardens
from the Qeer, and the girls from the Romeos
is one thing, making the campus look like
Auchwitz during the rush season, is another.
A stylist would probably say, less fence !flakes
more sense.
,
I heard · this outside the Taramani House
the other day. A lost motorist stops and asks,
, How far down the road to Kaveri ·Hostel ?,'
Came ~the quick reply, dripping with sick
humour,' Around 25,000 miles or so.' While
the chap is wondering if he was after aU right in
sending his son to this loony-bin, the guide
helpfully volunteers, • But . if yo1,l turn your
car around, Kaveri Hostel is just :;1.0 yards
down the road. '
That's that.
Farewell th~n, till the 'next issue hits the
stands. Be good---don't' do' anything
I wouldn't do I I
--GOPE

