[October, -1-968

CAMPASTIMES

8

Football

Sportfo/io

Shuttle Badminton
Captain S. N. Swamy
The recently concluded Madras · State
Shuttle championships brought to light a
promising young player for the countryIITian Edwin Srinivasan (17). He took the
men's singles, junior singles, and the junior
doubles title apart from being runners-up in
mixed doubles and a semi-finalist in men's
doubles. ' And with his neat display, court
coverage and fine anticipation he was also the
favorite with the crowd.'-(Indian Express).
During his school days at Bishop Cotton's,
Bangalore, Edwin represented the Mysore
State junior team in the inter-state badminton
tournament at Madras in 1966. Since hejoined
IIT, he has represented the state in many
championships. Edwin's favourite shot is his
back hand cross court ..
The other IITians who made marks in the
state championships are Shanker N. Swamy,
J. C. Giri, Vaidyanathan and Shiv PurL
Vaidyanathan reacheq the semi-finals in the
men's singles; and, partnering Shiv Puri,
he reached the men's doubles semi-finals.

Chess
When N. Gopal narrowly missed winning
the chess title in the 1966 Bertram Tournaments he decided to make a radio in order to
improve his public image. One Bertram and
one Y.M.C.A. Tournament later, Gopal was
the proud possessor of two titles, one radio
(with cabinet), one guitar and a couple of tight
pants. Having acquired what he thought were
the essentials, he decided to stand for the
posts of GeneraISec. and Mess Sec. in Tapti.
To the latter post he was elected unopposed.
As for the former, Bala Nambiar, Dev Kumar
and 170 Taptians decided that Gopal was getting too ambitious. Nevertheless Gopal is satisfied with serving as breakfast-show host, guitar
tutor and public punching-bag for his wing.

Gopal has retained the Bertram Chess title
this year.
Table~Tennis

Captain D. Cordeiro.
This year lIT's performance in the Bertram
tournament is nothing to write home about.
, All our members bar one were matched against
seeded players in the first round. To Rakesh
Gothi went the honour of displacing the sixth
seed while P. K. Ranganathan and Prem Watsa
went down after putting up a good fight.
In the doubles event Watsa and Cordeiro
managed to reach the quarter-finals before they
were eliminated by the third seeded combi~
nation.

N. GopllI

Ravi

Volleyball

Captaill V. Sethuramall.
Before thIS team could get settled a match
against Christian resulted in a (6- 1 5), (5-15)
defeat. Later IIT beat Jain (15-9), Is-lI).
Joshy Paul was the star performer.

Tennis

Captain J. P. Ramappa
A shortage of tennis balls is the . main drawback for our players this year. Tennis practice
started only two days before the Jain College
tournaments.
Taking advantage of a favourable draw to
reach the semi-finals lIT ian Ram Kumar
Menon lost to the ultimate winner Vijay
Amrithraj. The other players Anand Rangarajan, T. T. Jagannathan, A. G. Krishnan,
V. Srikrishnan, Viswanathan, J. C. Giri bowed
out of the tournaments in the earl ier rounds.
In the Bertram tournaments Giri reached
the quarter-finals where he lost to the National
Junior champion Anand Amrithraj.
In the inter-collegiate tournaments, lIT has
done well so far. Having beaten Vivckananda
and Presidency, Christian is to be faced to
reach the finals.

Hockey

If you happened to play Chess with Gopal
in I964, you might- have been alarmed at the
rate he noisily declimated your powers. The
Napoleonic airs are absent these days and the
game is quieter but swifter. Gopal had the
distinction of beating Manuel Aaron -in the
simultaneous Exhibition Match he played in
the institute last year and is currently ranked
in the state. This is no · small achievement
but he hopes to accomplish greater things if
lIT is able to particjpat~ in the Inter-U niversity tournament this year. Gopal plays Bridge
too. .He infuriated local Bridge fans by philosophizing thus in the columns of The Hilldu• Chess requires a lot of intelligence whereas
Bridge is pu,rely intuitive' •

Captain Anupam Setl
Ole! We "have done it at last. For the
first time we have become the ' 2;onal
champions, in tho Inter-collegiate football
tournament. We ~we a lot of this ' success
to our energetic and painstaking coach, Mr.
Rao, who has groomed this bunch of casual
players into a well articulated team.
Our impregnable ' Iron Curtain' defence,
with Chandran in the goal, Sanyal as stopper,
and Sen and Patelras full backs, lived up to its
hard earned reputation. The strenuous work
of half backs was amply taken care of by
, Shorty' Nayar,Bhattacharya, and Bannerjee.
Our forward line has come a long way to
become a deadly striking force. Speedy
wingers Anto and Victor have easily pen~trat.­
ed into the enemy defences and centred some
searing bullet drives, where our inners
Dhruvpant and Bhaskaran and centre forward
Samir Ganguly have nipped in to drive the

Captaitz Abraham Vergltese
The Hockey season was off to an early start
with a match between Final Years and
Freshers tiS the Rest, on a day preceding the
Convocation. The match ended in a I-I draw.
This year we are glad to note that a lot of
interest has been enthused for the game,
made evident by the large daily attendance.
In our first league fixture against Chri<itian
College we drew one all iIi the most absorbing
encounter of the year. We drew first blood
early 'in the first ,half when Ramu deflected a
pass from Abraham Verghese into the goal.
Christian putting on tremendous pressure
were rewarded for their efforts with a beautiful
goal by M. B. Aiyappa. Christian tried their
best to get the match winner, but the lIT
defence stood firm and determined to prevent
further scoring.
In a -dull encounter against Engineering,
we won by a solitary goal, a penalty corner
converted by Gill. Later, against Jain College
we won 2-0 in the most lifeless encounter so
far. Our forwards seemed to do everything
but score. Our scorers that day were Ramu
and Allen. In the last league fixture against
A.C. Tech. the match ended in a goallessdraw.
The Inter-Hostel matches started with
Ganga beating Alakananda 4-0. In another
fixture Krishna beat Mandakini 2-0 after a
marathon tussle for 13<? minutes.
This year the Institute team has K. S. Rao
as :vice-captain and Shri Basu John (1964-65
IIT Hockey team) as the Staff member incharge.
-K. S. RAo.

Practice session

attack
home. Newcomers Palaniappen,
Tangri and Gill have. proved their match~
worthiness, too.
We hope to get the Inter~conegiate trophy
this .year, and to bring the Inter-IIT trophy
back home again ..
In our debut at~the Inter-University tourllament at Trivandrum, fate took a cruel turn
when five of our top players were struck
down by 'Flu.
Although we fought
on with our nine players, we could make no
effect on the opponent's weaknesses.
Let us hope diat in future we are -able to
playas a normalF team, and come upto the
expectation of Inter-University standard, as
we did when we, defeated Andhra University.
-SANYAL.

]lIT
lIT in Indian Nation,
German co-operation, Raising folks to position,
In Madras location.
Students from many a statioll;
In world dominate,
Never at all hesitate,
To join in good haste.
Eminent men from other soil,
'Come here to toil,
Never at all will spoil,
Learn the use of coil.
Great men here land,
Alien and motherland,
On occasions here band,
Constructed with cement and sand.
Students come in car and cart,
Look very smart,
From discipline none depart,
From the time they start.
-NARASIMHAN~

(Watclunan)
(Narasimhan, an aged member of our Watch
and Ward, is a believer in our way of life~
His greatest wish is to talk · with students.
You can s~e him at the OAT after the movies,
philosophising and soliloquizing.~Ed..

