October. 1968]

CAMPASTIMES

AcUvitg In the HumOR Broin

011

Inaugural address by

~

-MORONOWSKI

-rH-E"

for the Electrical E1lgi'lz66ring Seminars

'V---

you go to class you can find a cockroach too.
That is if you sit in the hack benches and
search. You have to search hard. But it
works. So I found a cockroach.
, I put it in my pocket.
If you have a shirt. And jf it has a pocket.
And if you go to class. And sit in the back
bench. And find a cockroach. You can put
it in your pocket too.
It ran up and down in my pocket. This
made me happy. I looked down with
interest. The lecturer Saw me. He saw me
look with interest in class. So he became
happy. My neighbour saW the lecturer. He
saW the lecturer see me. He thought I was
caught. So he became happy.
Dopy saw the lecturer seeing the back
benches. He got scared. So he stopped
looking at a picture. (It was his own picture.)
He looked at the black.board instead.
The others saw Dopy looking at the board.
They were surprised. They thought there
was something about the lecturer on the
board. Something funny that he had not
seen. So they looked at the board. They
looked very interested. They Were happy.
The front bench saW the lecturer looking
at us. So they looked at us, They saw us
looking at the board. They thought that
mllybe they had missed something. So they
looked at the board and copied everything
down again. This made them happy. One
bloke copied everything down again twice.
He was a thorough bloke. This made him
very happy.
The middle benches did not look anywhere.
That is because they were benches. Benches
don't have eyes. So they can't Iook--there
were no people in the middle benches. They
were out seeing pictures. And they were
happy.
The cockroach. started nibbling my shirt.
This made him happy. lIe liked the taste.
Besides, he was hungry. For his mess
grub was bad.
The lecturer saw the whole dass looking at
the board. He sawall of us looking interested.
He was very happy. He hopped about on one
hand. Then he gave all of us attendance.
And let us off. He even switched the fans o:ff
himself.
We aU became happy.
All but the (,:ockroach. He had bitten a
piece of soap in my pocket. It was N.C.C.
soap. He choked and died.
But that does not matter.
For we were all happy. I went home
and had a bath. And became mOre happy.
The blokes in the front bench went home
and copied everything again. They missed
their grub to do this. So they became happy.
The others in the middle benches came back
from the pictures. They heard they got free
attendance. So they became more happy.
__ All because of the cockroach.
Moral! If you wear a shirt. And if it
has a pocket. And if you go to class. And
if you find Il cockroach. Remember to put
it in youI' pocket.

Box Office HIT

DR. RAMMURTHY

jiappiness
I was very happy. I'll tell you
TODAY
why. I found a cockroach in class. If

9

f

I

The series of electrical department seminars
were given a promising start by Dr. Rammurthy, the famous neurosurgeon. Dr. Rammurthy gave a general talk, with the idea of
introducing Electrical Engineers to the most
sophisticated and wonderful computing
mechanism, the Human Brain. The comparison with computers arises from the fact
that the nature of transmission of messages in
the nervous system is an electrical one (though
it is not certain whether other processes take
part also). The crux of the problem in
obtaining knowledge of the nervous system is
in learning how neural coding and decoding
takes place; this is the focus of attention of
most people working in this field.
With this introduction began the actual talk
which could well he called an illustrated tour
of the human brain. The quest to understand
the worldng of the brain is an old one. It
began with the vague formulations of the
Greeks. However objective and analytical
understanding of the brain began only about
ninety years ago and most of the significant
work hal; been done in the past twenty years.
The brain, as is well known, is housed
within the skull and is protected by a tough
and delicate membrane. A cut away view
showed the enormous complexity of the whole
organ, and the vast number of cells and blood
vessels in it. Contrary to popular belief it is
the brain, and not the heart or the muscles,
that requires the largest blood supply. It
also seems that 'spare part' surgery techniques are not applicable to brain transplants.
There are two main reasons for this. To
begin with, when a brain is transplanted each
fibre in the nerve (there are thousands of
them) has to be connected correctly to its
counterpart. If this is not done then the
doctor may find the patient scratching himself
when asked to look up. So it is required that
each nerve fibre be correctly connected; otherwise there would be an interchange of
functions. With the present techniques this
is an almost impossible task. The other
reason which is even more constraining is that
nerve fibres once damaged or killed do not
regenerate themselves. This is something like
the teeth of an old mall which once broken
can only be repZaced by false ones; they
cannot grow again. These two limitations
make brain transplants out of the question at
present.
The brain proper consists of two main
parts. The inner brain which is called the
Thalamus, controls all OUr automatic functions
like breathing, heartbeat, sex drive etc. The
outer part of the brain called the Cortex
controls all our logical actions. By experiment it h"as been determined that there is a
specific area of the brain that is responsible
for each part of the body. What distinguishes
man from other animals is that large proportions of the Cortex control the hands, fingers,
thumbs and the facial areas. These are the
regions that are capable of the most sensitive
actions. Most 'animals have a small Cortex
which explains why they are not as smart as
human beings.
The IOVler animals find that they can get
by with the most crude of reflex actions.
Thus objects either attract or repel them.
Such animals just exist; and common examples are insects, bacteria and other simple
forms of life. The higher animals are given the
facility of discrimination which enables them
to resolV'e various types of objects, recognise
patterns and be capable of making decisions of a simple or complex nature, depending on the type of animal. This calls for
logical activity from the brain. The brain
gets the input from a sensing organ, compares it with a memory (whiCh is a store of
previous experiences) and then sends forth
the necessary instructions.
For example, the eye just produces an
image, and that too an upside down image.
The information is put into a nervous code
and sent to the brain. The brain compares

SIt:.)I
A-aOV!E

""1-#'6

M l) t>
Bf1'L-O""l

/./ ~-r.
SWIMMING POOl.-

these messages with a 'memory' (which is
~ight si?e up I) ?nd sends out the necessary
lnstructions (whlch could be a whistle if the
image seen by {the eye happens to belong to a
member of th~. opposite sex). Doctors know
that the m.emory store is in the frontal region
of the bram but how the various actions take
place is not known.
It is possible to treat some mental diseases
by neurosurgery. A mental disease means
that some part ,of the brain is not functioning
properly or Showing the proper activity. The
surgical process is simply a matter of entering
the brain and destroying the affected region,
The actual operation is not a crude matter of
dr~ling through the skuU and dipping in a
kn]fe. In practice the brain is mapped in a
spherical co-ordinate system. The' co~
ordinates of the region to be destroyed are
deter~ined to a high degree of accuracy.
The Instrument actually used can be visualized
as a needle which moves on the surface of a
sphere and is normal to it, i.e., technically the
~eedle is a radius vector of the sphere. Now
1t is clear that any point within the sphere
whose co-ordinates are known can be reached
!,lindly by the needle. The whole apparatus
]s clamped on the patient's head. A hole is
~riUed at the right spot and the fine needle is
lnserted. It locates the spot directly with. an
accuracy of a fraction of a millimeter. It
may come as a surprise to know that the
patient is conscious all the time: by talking
to the patient the surgeon knows which part
of the brain he has reached, at the same time
the ,electrical activity of the brain is also
?,on1~ored. A~~ording to. Dr. Rammurthy it
JS qUite an excltmg operatIOn. The damaged
region once located is destroyed and a steel
pellet is inserted at that place. This helps to
determine the precise location of the region
byX rays.
Unfortunately there was not enough time
to anSwer all the questions that occurred to
the listeners. Some of the few interesting
comments brought out were that very few of
us use all the capacity available in our brains.
The brain is definitely under utilized. It is
not possible to produce an exact computer
model of the brain. This is because the
number of cel,ls in the brain vastly exceeds
the number of ~lements we could possibly put
into a computer, so there is no point in
comparing the capacities of a computer and
the brain. The other point is that we do not
know exactly what happens in the brain, and
to think of stimulating it by a computer model
is not feasable yet.
The talk
well punctuated with humorous analogies and was amply illustrated by
slides. Dr. Rammurthy brought all the
dynamic enthusiasm and clarity of detail that
is within the reach of scientists probing the
frontiers of knowledge. He was able to make
an. otherwise difficult subject very interesting.

war'!

-UMESH DU'ITA.

