10

CAMPASTIMES

BOOK WORMS' CORNER

Peering into 2000 A.D.

(Our first reviewers apology: ? ? . ! ! tI)

VIA GENEVA
By AAMIR ALI

(Publishers: Pearl Publica tions; Distributors:
India Book House, Madras; Price: Rs. 3.75.)
• To fresh woods and pastures new '-This
seems to be the penchant of the Indo-Anglian
novelist today, notwithstanding the current
controversy on *e status of English in India.
Mr. Ali's latest novel deals with International
Organisational set-up; international diplomacy
and • high' politics; and, above all, international bureaucratic society with all its' petty
jeatousies " predilections and prejudices as
influenced by different national and personal
interests. Having been associated with an
International Organisation for a number of
years in Geneva, Me. Ali confidently tells his
story with an ironical detachment and a lively
sense of humour. Lest he should be misunderstood, he explains: • To say such Organisations and their officials have foibles is
merely to say that they are human institutions
staffed by human beings.' The foibles that
bog down the activities of these Organisations
are indeed many; lack of co~ordination. se\£seeking meddlesome individuals, narrow
national interests, ignorant politicians, social
snobbery, smugness and pompousness.
Mr. Ali tells us in his precise and fluent
English, though not always perfect, all about
IeWO (International Child Welfare Organisation, Geneva) and its endea'Vour for about a
year to establish the African Regional Centre.
Marcel Desbiens, Chief of. the Conference
Department, is frankly puzzled by the
Nigerian Resolution. asking for a Regional
Centre in Africa; next, by the ticklish qu.estion
of choosing the President; and lastly by the
Application of Democratic League for an
Observer status. Besides, his own daughter
Maryse is getting friendly with Basil, the son
of the permanent representative of Ghana.
His wife, Sophie, is greatly exercised ove.r
this domestic problem. The Conference
solves the three official problems according
to the demands of international power-politics,
utterly ignoring the executive difficulties.
None the less, the Executive Secretary
succeeds' in getting the support of leWO's
sister organisations su.ch as ILO. UNESCO.
WIIO, FAO etc., for the proposed African
Centre. Endless discussions and ceaseless
formation of Sub Committees hamper lCWO's
efforts to implement the Nigerian resolution.
Exploratory Missions are sent to different
parts of Africa to find out a suitable place for
the location of the Centre. leWO announces
a few Scholarships for the benefit of the African
Centre. HQwever, owing to some violent
political upheaval in Laos, all developmental
programmes of rewo are 'frozen.' A few
months elapse before the setting in of a C Big
Thaw' in lCWO's affairs. One year is almost over when the Executive Secretary, with
gteat vision and judgment, decides to loc"te
the Centre in Ethiopia which, ironically
enough, none of the Exploratory Missions has
recommended; and he appoints Grantley as
the Director with Pravin, the quiet, sincere
and devoted Indian official, as his assistant,
and Nilsson as thetecbnical expert. Desbiens's
own personal problem is settled when Basil
Grantley and Maryse an.nounce their engagement. This interesting socio-political comedy
thus positively ends with the truly international
marriage of Basil, an African boy, and Maryse,
a French. girl. But as for Desbiens, the
IeWa Chief of annual Conference, the circle
is full: it is once again the same old problem
of tackling another member-the UAR whose
resolution demands the establishment of subregional centres with advisory committees in
different parts of Africa. To quote: ' Desbiens
looked at the resolution with distaste and disbelief •..• He shut the file and went to the
bar in search of a coffee! an aspirin, and someone to talk to.' The novel focusses the reader's
attention on the lllultiplicity of international
organisations whose main interest is merely in
cultivation of contacts rather than work.
-DR.

A. V.

KRISHNA RAO.

[O<:tober, t968

il Very Merry
Festive Season
['Ock if up, folks I
(Just don't think about the te1'1ninals uarD.)

Mr. Sethunathan at I.I.S.,
Bangalore
The following

is an eXC6,"pt from the 1'emarks

by Mr. C. V. Sethu1ulth01Z. our Registrar at
a c01iference of Registrars and Admt1Jistrative
Officers held at the 1.1.S., Ba1zgalol'e.

Friends, they say (and most of you might
have experienced the same) that a child acts
as a bond between the husband and the wife
to strengthen the tie that already exists
between them. This analogy of a family,
and I think rightly, comes to my mind in the
relationship amollg the academic staff, the
students and the administrative staff of an
institute like ours-the husband, the wife and
the child-the academic staff, the administrative staff and students. The role of the child
is played by the students. I have to leave it
to you to assign the roles of the husband and
the wife to the academic and administrative
staff for obvious reasons. To some extent;
this assignment by you depends on your own
subjective experience in life and I do not
venture to suggest the exact assignment of
these two roles to you. As far as I am concerned, I take it that there will be consensus
in this that an institute like ours is a family
having these three essential compliments. 1£
the interests and well-being of the child in a
family is the main goal of the parents. lUany
of the usual difficulties disappear. I feel. in
a similar fashion. that if all of us have the
interests and welfare of the students foremost
in our minds, we have fairly smooth sailing.
There will not be much time or energy left
for airing our difficulties, many a time more
imaginary than otherwise, if this is kept in
mind.'

Prof. ZlJERN'S CONTESTS
Entries
under

Scrutiny

Ever since man started to think, he has been
obsessed by the thought of knowing what is
going to happen in the future. Astrology and
palmistry developeq to answer this need.
Even today, people who are • modern' and
we~ter~ised in. eyery other respect, have a
bellef In predictIOns by various astrologers
depending on the success of their previous
predictions.
Today, however, 8/)lew method of foreseeing
events has been developed in the United
States. The development of computers has
made possible the -correlation of large amounts
of infor~ation and experts now work out, on
the baSIS of what are called ' probability
patterns '. the future, not of indiViduals, but
of the world. Best known among these
modern astrologers arc the Hudson Institute
in New York and the RAND Institute in
California.
These have, first of all, concentrated on how
the year 2000 will be. The developments
have been catalogued under four headings:
Food, Medicine, Politics and Space.
On food the consensus is that long before
2000, perhaps even by 1980, the world ·lvill be
able to feed its vast population. The main
re,asons for this will be the development and
wld~~perad Use of high-yielding strains and
fertdlsers, th.e rolling back of deserts, and
finally, orgamsed fishing. The first development, all who read. the daily newspapers are
fami!iar with. The:second is more interesting.
Rolhng back the desert does not mean merely
bringing water to them. In many places
formerly cultivated land lies under two
to eight feet high carpets of sand, brought by
unfriendly winds. Reclamation will consist of
excavation and planting 'shelter belts' of
trees-both techniques well known for a long
time. The third development-that of the
ocean-we are not too sure about but the
possibilities range from using the dolphin
(most intelligent of all marine life) as a sort of
cow boy for the swarms of fish to be developed,
to the developn1.ent of gills for human beings.
In medicine too there will be enormous
developments. Cancer will be defeatedand will be used to re-grow amputated limbs.
LSD will be used for curing SChizophrenics.
\Ve will be able to: stimulate our brains: A
c~clert. a day wil1.~make anyone the equal of
Emstem. Anger and depression will be
unknown-enzyme balancers will keep us
permanently good-tempered. Our span of
life will be lengthened and practically doubled.
And those who cannot be cured will be frozen
in capsules until ~lte ~e comes when they
can be cured.
.
The developments in politics wiIl be 110 less
tremendous-politics will disappear. Union of
the world which is a certainty by 1990 will
obviate most politicians, only those good at
administration will continue in their posts.
But before· this Japan will become the thi,d
most powerful country in the world followed
by South. Africa, China and India in that
order. Britain and France will be the first of
the < second-class powers': Brazil, Pakistan,
Egypt; Canada, Germany and Australia.
Most African and Asian countries will put
very little money into military armament and
it is these countries which will begin the
process leading to world federation.
The possible developments in outer space
are familiar to most. By zooo, there will be
settlements and laboratories on the moon as
well as smaller ones on Mars and Venus.
The first landings on the moons of Jupiter
will also have taken place.
But what about today's problems ( The
Vietnam War, racial discrimination and the
seething discontent? Leftist idealists will
triumph in Europe and America by 1975 thus
destroying forever the possibilities of a race
war. The belief in equality will lead to a
large scale increase in the help to developing
countries and thus by f980 we will be living
in a peaceful world with enough for all.
If only it would happen! Astrologers have
always told us what we want to hear but this
time with a little help from everyone this
brave new world can come into being.
-KAPADIA.

