October. 1968]

CAMPASTIMES

CARICATURE

I :first met Amir Aluned at our interviewyou know the one I am referring to-the one
following the Entrance Exam., where they
show you a round-bottomed flask and ask
you if you are certain that it isn't a dessicater
or something like that, and you say that sure
as hell it's a R.B. Flask. and they tell you
that you have great potential to be a chemical
engineer and shunt you off to that branch.
while all you wanted was to be mechanical
engineer. Amir and I had our interview 011
the same day-in all fairness to him it must be
said that his number came up ages before
mine. By the way, have you noticed that
people destined to be thrown together a lot
usually start on opposite sides t Arnir and
I were on opposite sides, 8S it were. Well
cutting further preamble~ there was this girl
at the interview. Both Amie and I were trying
to offer her a lift back to civilization after the
interview was over. Now it came to pass that
I had popped up here in a Buick-8 while
Amir sported a Fint millicento. I am in a
confessing mood right now, so I don't mind
telling you that my car was a borrowed one.
But the advantage of borrowing cars is that
the ordinary-man~in-the-street aoesn't get to
know that it is a borrowed one. That goes
for girls-at-interviews too. So, the' curtain
comes down with my getting the girl, like
S. M. Krishnan does in his plays.
. Seeing Amir for the first time, one gets the
distinct feeling that Nature must have first
intended to make a cocoanut tree of him. but
changed its mind at a late stage in the proceedings, and decided to go in for something
with not so many nuts at the top and with the
distinct advantage of two feet below. What
I mean with aU this rigmarole is that Amir
is rather tall, frail and willowy-sort of
reminds one of him when one hears the song
that goes.- 'The answer, my friend, is blow~
ing in the wind!
One day last summer a battered old bus
left Bangalore and headed for Coorg. Inside
the bus were a lot of farmer-types, a few
dapper gentlemen, a few girls and Amh: and
Santhan Raj. During a quiet spell in the
bus, in a voice that would have drowned
Prof. Krishnamurthy's, Amir asked Santhan.
• I say Comrade I Pass me the Pravda. will
you please? • Comes the quick reply, that
froze the passengers to their seats, f But Commissar. it's in the attache-case with the
bombs.' 'Oh, then don't bother. It's just that
I'm frightfully bored .. And Mao's Thoughts
are in the same case too? No, no, don't
bother.' •••.. and so on as the bus hurtled
towards a glorious sunset. AmiI' had a great
trip, he assures us; the poor co-passengers,
spent the rest of the journey keeping one eye on
the attache-case and the other roam ing around
the bus lookins for possible escaperoutes.

Such practical jokers, like Rome, (though
not a practical joker) aren't made in a day.
They make the grade after 8ges of constant
practice.
I still remember Amir in the good old
'63-64, when we were doing our first yeal'.
Maybe with the passage of time I'll forget
Amir, but our old Asst. 'Warden of the Tapti
days will have many a thing to say of Amir
even if he lives to be I20 years old. This
chappie used to be the receiving end of most
of Amir's pranks in those days.
The general procedure in those days was,
the mains in the hostel would be suddenly
switched off and in the prevailing darkness
Amir would lead the singing of 'Yamundi
something something Rao Rao Rao J' along
with. 200 ch.eery loud souls.
I still remember the song, even the something something bit, but if I fin in those blanks
properly. this article would never be pubIish~
ed in Call1jJastil11es. While the singing would
be going on, Mr. Rao (for such was the
Asst. Warden's name) would be ~rying to
convince the fair guests in his room that
the revellers were playing hell with the other
Asst. Warden, and that he is a popular sort
of fellow himself. After all there wasn't
even a miIIion to one chance that she knew
that the other Asst. Warden's name was
Banerjee, not Rao !
Soon the .Asst. Warden got a neat little
fortress built around the main-switch, and
'kept it locked. So what? Amir had explored
new avenues by now, and came up with the
• Time-Bomb,' which didn't even go ticktick-tick. The idea is to attach an agarbathi
to the fuse of the conventional ' atom bomb',
which is quite freely available during the
Deepavali season, light the bathy. ~nd leave
the whole set-up inconspicuously inor around
the Asst. Warden's room. The main advan~
tage of this bomb is that when the bang-bang
starts. you are nowhere near the scene of the
crime, but some place with a good view.
watching the fun. Mr. Rao ended up with a
couple of D's in his periodicals (he was
doing his M. TECH. then). and his girlfriends stopped coming to his room, after it
became evident to them who the hero of our
bawdy songs really was. And the crackers
going off all around him wasn't doing his
nerves any good either. So he withdrew aU
his silly rules, which he wanted to enforce.
Amir had learnt the reliability of the practical-joke method of influencing people.
When Amir wasn't giving. the treatment to
Asst. Wardens, he could be seen playhlg up
his wing-mate and contemporary, Ramayya.
This Ramayya chap came from the more
remote regions of Andhra Pradesh, and was
the ideal country-bumpkin. Amir used to
have a lot of fun with Ramayya. Usually, we

tl
all joined in. for it is.n't everyday that one gets
ideal country-bumpkins to rag, and ragging
the Asst. Warden gets frightfully boring after
it's been going on for the last two months!
Finally this chap Ramayya felt that he had
taken enough of this sort of nonsense and
went and lost his /,'rag. He caught hold of
Amir Olle day and gave his ultimate ul.timatum-' Dey Ameeru Garu, Nenu chepputhanu. If you dOll't stop ragging me now.
I'll call you • BLOODYf '
Amir also had a grand, rip-roaring time
in a class handled by a lecturer of the same
name. He generally sat at the last row singing • Ramayya Vostavayya, Mere Dil Tujh
Ko Diya: which was a lie, for Amir just
couldn't stand the sight of him.
Amir's dresses have to be seen to be believed 1 By his side King Solomon, dressed in
all his glory, would look like a tramp-cyclist.
In the· hostel 'he (Amir. not King' Solomon)
lounges in his pink-pajamas, and LUngis. If
you try to verify the truth of this statement by
contacting his Dhobi. he'll think you're nuts.
Apart from his justifiable surprise. at Yahoos
dropping in and asking questions like that,
there is the fact ,that he would never have
seen die 'works himself. In other words
Amir doesn't get hi's pajamas laundered at all.
He reputedly sleepS a whole year in them and
during the summer vacatio11 gets them washed at home. The philosophy is quite simple110 point getting good cash wasted on Dhobies
here when the same thing can be done at
home free. To classes he wears his 007
shirts and trousers to match the latest
Piccasso held in place by a belt bearing the
legend-' Thunderball-007 '.
Amir has this un-orthodox habit of borrow~
ing others' hankie13. He just passes one on
the road, taps one's shoulder and enquires,
'You don't happen to have a hankie on
you •.• Oh, you have?. ~ May I. . .?'
Perhaps you are meeting him for the first
time, and so you dish out the neat little
hankie to him. He returns it a few moments
later, but it will tbe quite a while (another
laundering etc.), ~efore you can use it again.
His exploits in. the Matbs Department are
legendary. A minor incident occurred when he
erased from the name-plate of a lecturer, a
couple of letters, that left the name quite
humourous, to say the least I The lecturer,
who caught him a:i it. didn't think it funny at
all, and suggested they drop in on the Professor for a chat.
A more colourful incident cropped up when
Amir locked up himself and the rest of his
class inside a classroom in the same department. The lecturer came along in. good time,
and after a few gentle and a few hard knocks
and a few juicy kicks realized that this wasn't
getting him anywhere. So he goes over to
the locked window and tries to catch Someone's eye. Would you believe it, the whole
class is watching something on the other side.
He taps on the window. Whatever it is the
fellows are watching on the other side seemed
to be holding their attention fast. So few
harder bangs at the window was experimented
with. No dice I So in a style reminiscent of
of the Coca-Cola ads, he smashed his hand
through the window-pane. This performance
found favour with the natives, whose heads
swivelled around immediately, and one look
at them and the lecturer realized who the
master-mind beliind aU this must have been.
, Ameer t " he yelled, 'Look at my hand! It's
bleeding t .•• Blood II ... Blood means Mur!1erlf! Ameer you are murdering me I' With
that he withdraws his hand through the
smashed glass' and brings his face over and
makes his parting statement, • When you.
all suffer, I feel it; when I suffer, nobody
gives a damn I' with that he strode away.
It's my belief that nobody can apologize
quite as effectively as Amir does! In other
walks of life others may excel, but when it
comes ~o apologies, Amir stands alone. Nobody has heard him apologize and not for~
given him his shortcomings on the spot.
Amir layed it on thick with this chappie.
Before he had quite finished, the lecturer was
wondering how.' he could possibly have lost his
temper with th~s gem of a person-certainly a
a couple of sprained fingers and losing'a few
quarts of blood didn't warrant it. So he told
Amir not to worry his dear old heart, that it

