12

C A.M PAS TIM E S

THE TOOTH, THE WHOLE TOOTH AND
NOTHING BUT THE TOOTH
Prologue
The other day, someone (1 choose to keep him annonymous to avoid embarrassment), came rushing into my room. • Holy Caluso! I am on the verge of getting a
wisdom tooth! Pains like hell!' I had been grappling with the problem of writing
an article for Campastlmes, but a shortage of humorous episodes in my rather dull
life had me nonplussed. The sudden invasion of this jerky talker didn't quite help,
not at first. C Go see the dentist " I said. 'See if he can tear your gum to let it
out easier. It should be a lot less painful " I added with sadistic sarcasm. Then
it struck me like thunder-why here is the adventure. Yes folks, a visit to a den~
tist is what the following article will be aU about.
A visit to a dentist is always something to
talk about. I can visualise my Aunty (it has
no dearth of them)
sitting at a Bridge table, holding a 'One no~
trump' opening, excitedly laying down her
reading glasses and in an imbued voice say,
• .Have I told you about my appointment with
$e dentist last evening~-' and one no-trump
or no n(j~trump, bridge would slowly recede
into the background, where it rightly belongs
when such an interesting conversation begins.
• Oh the pain when he struck a nerve' or ' the
whirring sound as he drilled a hole to fit in
the gold' promptly corrected, 'Not gold,
silly. it's silver' followed by, • Must be a
gold silver alloy' and the foursome would
forget all about the game, call for tea and the
party would be, shall we say, ,swinging.

to be an Aunty-there is

Caricature-(contd.)
was nothing, come to think of it, a good joke
really etc. etc., and sent him away. Anyway
just to be on the safe side, Arnir used to drop
in on this chappie daily for a week and make
soul-searing enquiries about his recovery. .
Amir is a well-known· debater. One thmg
about his method of debating is the slow
dtawl he emploYS at the rostrum. • I .... am
.' .•. spee •... king .... for ..•. the •.•• pre ••••
po .••. si. ... shun .... ', he goes, bent-double
over the mike. If one speaks real slow, one
may make do with fewer points, but as far as
Arnir is concerned, these few points are gems,
and so he m~ages to win the debate more
often than not.
It however took all his debating ability the
other day, when, crawling out of class, on all
fours behind the last row, he came face-to~face,
or rather face-to~knee with a Professor.
If you think that situation embarrassing,
wait till you hear this one r This happened
in the znd year, if I'm not mistaken.
lVIt. Gangadharan used to teach us Applied
Mechanics in those days. He came to class,
one day, about ten minutes early and sat with
"the ead-y~biIds of Out class. Amit walks into
class, just about beating the siren to it, and
shouts out to· Mony, totally obliviouS to his
frantic ges1iculations, 'Dey Mony, Come out
man. That bum Gangadharan won't be in
for the next ten minutes at least I ' • Yes,
Mr. Amir?' comes the familiar voice in a
tone that would have dropped the temperature
a couple of degrees even in a wintry Srinagar.
. All students coming from Lawrence School
claim to 'be experts at skating. Amir was
amongst the first to join the Skating Club,
just to prove that point. I still remember his
inaugural performance there. He strapped
on the roller skates with a flourish and stood
up whistling a snappy tune to show that he
didn't have a care in the world. Then he set
. down the rink towards the glorious sunset.
Since he had left school, he hadn't done much
skating, so he shouldn't have let all the
shouting go to his head. No point saying
that now, for he did let it go to his head.
He decided to give the natives a tre~t! He
began something that was a cross between
• Swan Lake' and 'Holiday on Ice.' The
skates had by now decided that they had had
enough, and took off for the great open
spaces. Arnir Ahmed hung poised in the air
for a momemt, and then came down heavily
on his rear and an arm. While the former
rose to the occasion magnificently. his arm

All over it's like this-in the bus, on local
trains or in class-the experienced eagerly
cornering a victim and relating their hour of
horror and the thereafter. Often at the
receiving end, at times I wondered how ex~
citing it must be to be able to sit in the
• Chair' and take a trip around 'On-thepins-land '.
It wasn't with exactly that feeling that I
went to sleep one night. When I got up the
next morning I thought I felt a little pain in
one of my molars. But nonchalantly I ruled
out any major crisis among my enamelled
warriors who had so faithfully served their
purpose till now without any. complaints, and
demanding only very little attention. every
morning. Later in the day when Cannon
offered me some peanut brittle, the pang got
let him down badly. For the next few months
Arnir sported a plaster cast around his arm.
Now it came to pass that a few weeks be~
fore the skati.'1g rink incident, Amir's parents
had presented him with a Rajdoot mobike.
Before the week was out he had knocked
down a citizen of Velacheri, who, like that
Maths lecturer I was telling you about, cried
, Murder' • Well, the disgression aside, when
Amir broke the story of his skating rink
disaster home, they had a good laugh and
withdrew the mobike for the time being. He
must have had an accident, they decided and
that was bad enough, but passing of stories
on the lighter vein to cover it ':Ip, they felt,
was the limit.
In the years that followed, Amir was
always in the limelight. He was either the
secretary of the Film Club, Entertainment
Committee or something like that. This
year he has withdrawn himself from the
public eye. He is brought out only when,
for some reason or the other, somebody is
going to be thrown into one of the pools that
dot our campus landscape here and there, and
the honours done to him first-something like
the Hindu custom of appeasing Shri Ganesha
. before setting out on any important mission.
Another reason for Amir's giving up the
public life is that other interests have cropped
up. You know IT has happened-the REAL
THING! This sort of thing affects different
people in different ways. Amir became an avid
reader of the Rubaiyats of Omar Khayyam,
from which he quotes li~e nobody's business.
He also occasionally hops into a cab and says
• Wilt Thou, Taxi chap, take this Arnir Ahmed
to the Arts College?', for he is headed for
the hallowed spot to meet the recipient of
his heart.

••••• behind
m.y

behind,

and ••••••

This then is the story of that man from
U dumalpet, Arnir Ahmed. Arnir is the sort
of chap everyone likes to have around, for he
is always bursting with good cheer, enthu~
siasm, and a load of good jokes and fun. It's
been my privilege to have known him.
-GOPE.

[ October, 1968
a bit worse. The keenness, with which I
was, once upon a time, anticipating , The
visit • to a dentist had worn off and in its
place a strange fe1i.r crept in.
.
In the evening, on close scrutiny in amirror.
1 gaped in horror at the formation of a slight
cavity. The sight of it made me sick and I
wondered how I could have ever negl.ected it
in the beginning. I decided that something
must be done about it.
At the next available opportunity I looked
up a long list of telephone numbers under
, Doctors '. Imagine my relief when I could .
not find any dentist's name. Now, how the
hell is one supposed to fix an appointment
with a dentist when you 40n't even know his
telephone number. The 'File was closed "
so to speak, for a few days, while more important things were given priority.
But things took the turn for the worse
owing to the ba~ management of a sip of
Tapti water (Oh l so cold). Added to this,
the inability to ~at anything solid and the
steadily increasing days of liquid diet made
me look into the telephone. list again. Hell!
there it was-' Doctor A. E. Narayan D.D.
S.~683 26 '. Between the last time I saw the
list and noW someone had entered his name.
The worst had co~e. One doesn't look up
a doctor's list just for kicks-so I rang the
dentist. The appointment for the following
Monday was due for confirmation from him
one day before the actual visit.
It's MondflY. Confirmation· due next
Sunday. There, I thought-nearly :l. whole
week in front of me, so why worry about so
minor a thing as a dentist's appointment.
Anything can happen between today and
Sunday. If the Chinese Commies decide an
air attack on India (rather, Madras) and re~
duce the city to rubble. there I would be
standing on Mount Road. buildings crumbled
all round me, wondering how to keep the dentist's appointment-I mean, it's a bit thick.
Or he might ring up to say that the appointment stands cancelled to enable him to
attend a Seminar of Dental Surgeons-Dr.
D. D. (Dentist) Daruwalla on' The Extrication of the Molar letting out a stink which
can be smelt within a fifty yard radius', or
Dr. Jaguar Sabre~ooth, eminent zoologistcum~dental surgeon on the 'Advantages of
never washing the mouth '.
But such things don't happen, and even if
they do, it's only in movies and books. Tuesday too dIes along and passes. Wednesday
dawns (Periodical day, mugging at a full clip).
Thursday goes by without any major upheavals in Madras. Judging from the look of
things, the appointment seems inevitable and
one might as well face the whole business with
a smile (and it pains to smile I). Confirmation comes on Sunday all right, so it's just
twenty four hours between me and the
'chair'.
The first day of the week is always a formidable obstacle as one gets quite used to
lounging around over the week-end (especially
us, the second yeari1es, who don't have a test
to study for), but when towards the end of
that day one has to ,keep an appointment with
the dentist it is customary not only to hope
for the world to· come to an end on Sunday,
but that even the lousiest day of the week,
Monday, should never end.
I managed to get the last lecture off (thank
God for small me~cies !) to be able to be on
time. Butterflies in the stomach and aU that,
but the bath has to be got over with, a shave
will be well received and a change into a better shirt appropriate.
Reluctantly, I made it to Mount Road and
started the short walk to the dentist's clinic.
Even now in some remote corner of the mind
was banging away a disturbing thought 'He
can't do a fig if you don't turn up. After all
it's your tooth.' I managed to restore calm in
my mind and soon I was at the imposing
building which spelt doom for me. As I was
about to enter it, one of the kids playing in
front of the building banged into me-Kids 1
What do they know about tooth trouble?
That guy licking away at his cheap ice cream
would never bother himself with such
miseries. He will probably scoff at me if I
tell him I have an appointment with the
dentist-that is if he knows who the ]atter is.

