CAMPASTIMES

DIRECTOR

[October, 1968

AT HOME

Like all great men, Dr. Ramachandran
recently faced the inevitable interview,
with Compastim6 5 at his house.

Dr. Ramachandran is the best of talke;rs.
When he narrates, the scene is before you.
Mrs. Ramachandran, on the other hand,
prefers to listen and smile in silent
agreement to what her hJlsband
says.

The Director

entered the
in
quiet
trousers, !!legant slacks and
slipons. U That's what I
wear most evenings," he
toid us. "And I like reading
a lot; something ~or ,,:?ich I
don't get enough time.
drawjng~room

Some years ago, he used to
play hockey and tennis at a
playground . not far from
here.; he was then a student
of the Engineering College,
Guindy. Today, Dr. Ramachandran's e nth u s i a s m
"", seems to have given new
life ito all activities in the
InstItute. Around him the
campus moves slowly about its
business as if time were absent.
In addition to his skill as an admini·
strator, he is known to' the scientific
world as a specialist in Heat Transfer.

Dr. Ramachandran values
himself only upon his own
achievements. Above all it
is 'his confidenc~ and patience
that are striking. We were ve~'Y
IQ~ch delighted "'''th his reflections.
H~ is fully aware of all the problems
and necessities of the students. .. You
will have the semester system from next
year," he said, and abruptly changed the
subject.
... What about your swimming pool ??? I,
•• What about it sir?"
~.. Ah! The wat;r recirculation has been given as a project to a
group of the final year Chemicals." And he almost winked.

U Sir, will there be any· more changes in the
course content ?"
The answer was yes. Languages at the second year
level will possibly be optional and a second c~)Urse in
German will perhaps be introduced in the third year. Their·home
amply summarises their tastes. Mrs. Ramachandran is a w~mderful
companion and a source of inspiration to the busy man
that our Director is. "She is already complaining
that I do not spare enough time for the familyl" said
Dr. Ramachandran.

The task before our Director is tremendous,-that of raising this infant o~anis~tion to i~ternati,onal
stature-and in the light of his determination" his
industry will never slacken.
Campa~times and its readers 'wish him and
Mrs. Ramachandran many happy. years in the
campus.

HIS LOS5IRRE.J>86(RBLr:

\

Edited by K. K'llyanaraman, Published by Prof. S. Sampath andJ'rinted by C. E. Koahyat the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute. of Technology, Madras

