Stil1l11'let 1970]

CAMP As-tIMES

CARICATURE
If you happen to hear a stream of rapid
chatter in a high, excited voice, punctuated by
a raucous cackle which might charitably be
interpreted as laughter, your suspicions are
quite -understandably aroused. And then
there comes into view a large tubby figure. a
face with a &harp curved nose and other
features, a pair of eloquently gesticulating
hands; the high, excited voice continues,
soaring up into a falsetto every now and then
for emphasis. Your thoughts have long since
passed from suspicion to certainty. The tubby
one smiles and says I Hi' as he passes, for he is
known to be friendly to the natives. You have
been witness to the walking past of the
famous (infamous) T. T. Jagannathan-the
one and oniy Jaggu of its kind, free or in
captivity.

Jaggu who is not particularly fond of ,being
called TTJ is a campus phenomenon for more
reasons than one. His is a volatile nature
.and when excited (i.e. nearly all the time) he
is very voluble., In a single rubber of bridge
be can be relied upon to register triumph.
-disaster, apprehension, defiance, annoyance,
rage, outrage and diabolical delight. This
-superb emotional performance, which would
send leeser men like Marlon Brando and Rod
,Steiger tottering weakly off to bed, leaves him
full of pep and ready for a lot more. He
'brings the same break-neck matter-of-life-anddeath approach to tennis, rounders, tutorials,
'periodicals, and everything else. Watching
him be the General Secretary of Saraswathi
Hostel has been one of the most exhausting
-experiences of my life.
-Jaggu is a five-year merit scholar md
chronic S-averager, and his grades would
'make you turn green with envy if you. were
not already pallid with stark horror. Now
'you know and I know that such statements

JAGANNATHAN,
T. T.

are generally neurotic, but neurotic is a mild
word for this one. Until you've met Jaggu
after the periodical where he forgot to underline the answer, you haven't really lived. His
brow furrowed in distress, his mouth tightened in agony, his shoulders bowed under
the burden of the cares of this world his
frame sltrunk, his walk slowed, his voice sub.
dued, he makes you think what a rotten place
this world is, with its beastly blue sky and
sickening sunshine and ghastly green grass
-and repUlsive periodicals where you forgot to
underline the answer. In this bright and
cheerful mood you go to the next class, where
the guy is distributing last time's answer
papers-the one where Jaggu forgot to put a
full stop at the end of the first sentence, and
as a consequence cataclysms roared in the
corridor outside, and threatened to engulf and
terminate this perfidious kali-yuga world. In
due course Jaggu reclaims his paper with • S
plus e"cellent' or some such lowly grade
scrawled outside, and returns wreathed in

smiles to whisper from the summit of Sollle
rainbow to end all rainbows, ' Liberal correction what?' You take a resigned look at
your own 'B' or Ie', confirm yout' private
feeJing that lecturers get their red ink free
and whisper back I Very liberal'.
Just in case you think all this is 11 slight
exaggerati(}n you must hear about Jaggu's
latest worry. You see, So many people have
got admission in universities abroad, and his
rank in class is after all only first and there
are only six months left for the fall semester
to begin. and he hasn't heard from any university yet; and wouldn't it be simply humiliating if he didn't get in? Knowing that this
joke was too good to last, and that it is no use
telling him not to be funny, I agreed with a
straight face that it would be humiliating. As
I said before, it can't last, so go and hear it
quick byfore he gets snapped up by a university tha~ knows a good thing when it sees one 1
-8, PARAMESHWARAN~

