4

CAMPASTIMES

[Summer 197(}
,-------~-

o

0

o

One cannot predict what will happen once
one starts something. The subsequent Course
of events may constitute a stately ride, with
oneself in full control. Or, it may be a runaway thing, with one having no marc
control over what one bestrides than had the
famed Mazeppa. • • On thinking it over, it
strikes me that that is, perhaps, not quite the
comparison I am looking for. Mazeppa's
ride was a wild and terrifying thing, that rao
its course in lonely, awesome territory, with
the fear-inspiring nature of the surroundings
serving to heighten the terror of the man on
the wild horse. , This is too dramatic a cloth
from which to cut and fashion a comparison
for the kind of things I do, or have happen
to me. I: a rather common-place, un-imaginative man, not the kind to set in motion,
or be caught up in anything extraordinary,
be it in the physical, intellectual. ot spiritual
sense.
I should have said Gilpin instead. Gilpin's
runaway horse was no wild beauty, with
the fire of a thousand untamed ancestors in
its veins. Gilpin's horse was a work..jaded
hack, like its rider, and the only danger
Gilpin faced, in being run away with, was the
harmless and common-place one of drawing
ridicule down on himself, from the people in
the streets through which his horse took him.
Even the locale of his runaway ride is apt:
the run-of-the mill haunts of men; no forest,
no desolate, bleak. man deserted region,
nothing of dimension greater than the common-place.
•••• Where I have got to now. is an unintended illustration of my first sentence.
When beginning this I did not imagine that
I'd be led into a dil;;cussion of comparisons.
However, that is by the way. To get back to
what 1 was saying at the start, the • something' that I was referring to is my venture
into writing, which appeared in the pages of
Campastimes a little while ago. I did not
foresee then that, very shortly ~fter, I'd
again have to look into the rag-and-boneshop of my mind for something, anything, to
stretch out into a theme for a second essay.
I did not foresee this, but all the same have
been ddven to it by an editor, who, rather
flatteringly, came back for more. What a few
smooth compliments can do, to a normally
rather obstinate, mulish man I
I have searched the shelves, and find them
bare, picked clean from the nrst attempt:
There is nothing. Perhaps I should make
nothing the theme of my song. I am almost
tempted to do so, except that it is a theme a
little too lofty for a singer in a minor key.
For, consider how awesome a thing is
nothingness. What is it that makes the
desert so mysterious, so frightening? Its
partial nothingness: the sand and the sky,
and, these apart, nothing. Why do we feel
cowed down, subdued, when on ship in midocean? Because of the same part;ial nothingness: the water, this time, and the sky, and
no· other thing. What makes the Arctic and
Antarctic regions so forbidding? The same
reason: the whiteness in all directions, and
nothing else ~esides.
These, mind you, are only partial nothin~.
nesses. There is still a little something m
each of these cases: the sand, or the water, or
the ice. Some little thing for the small mind
of Man to latch on to, to shield him from the
sheer horror of nothingness in the total sense.
We cannot face nothingness in this sense.
We are of too small a mould. What is it
about the universe that so fills us with dread?
Not the sun, or the planets, or the stars
which occur in it here and there, but vast
expanse of nothingness ~hat it essentially is.
Why, in fact, is the theme of most religion
reassurance concerning the existence of an
after..life? Because We cannot face the possibility. of. passing. into total nothingness.

To veer in a slightly different direction,
".. hy is it that we finally wind up loving in so
many cases, and hating in so many others ?
Because to have neither would be to have
nothingness in the world of our feelings, and
!hat we cannot abide. And what, finally,
is so much of the noise, confusion, and fastpaced activity that one sees about one due
to? It is we, running away, eagerly seeking
every possible distraction to avoid having to
contemplate our 0\,111 nothingness.
No I Nothingness is too awesome a thing.
I leave it, and the infinite, to pens more
talented, more gifted with insight, wiser. For
me the little theme suffices.
Any little
thing ••• Coffee and radios for instance would
be suitable subjects to bow out on, I think.
Nor are they So unconnected as might first
be supposed. If one loves coffee one frequents coffee-houses, and where is there a
coffee-house without a radio blaring forth the
latest inanities from the film-world?

M. ANTONY REDDY
As for coffee itself, it pains me, as its devotee. to find it so much abused. In ten that
one encounters, hardly one cup is that heady,
exotic, fragrant brew, coffee in the real sense.
It is only to be expected, I suppose, for
coffee-making is a nne art, and one knows
from experience in other fields how rare a
thing the great master is. For one such,
there are a hundred other bungling, middleof-the road practitioners of the art.
Nor is it to be wondered at, in these decadent times in which we have strayed
very far from the principles of the art, as
they were first laid down. that there should be
so much of dilution with milk, so heavyhanded a sweetening. Coffee was supposed
to be black as the devil, and strong enough to
knock a horse off its feet, mere sweetness
being out of the question: a noble drink in
the original form, and therefore doomed to
extinction. For, as with everything elseliterature, say, or music, or the visual artsso with a drink. Our tastes run to the weak,
the dilute, the saccharin; in brief, the lowest
forms. All strength and nobility must be
knocked out of the original, before our weak
equipment-physical or mental-can cope
with it. So it is vile coffee everywhere;

I*

and, viler abominations still, the soft drinks •.
those cloyingly sweet, coloured waters I
•••• What crimes we common men are
guilty of t All the ideas of the great arc debased byus. Wc misinterpret them, and use
them to arrive at conclusions which suit our
purposes, but which are not supported by the
ideas themselves. AU the inventions of the
great are put by!ius to the most debased used
imaginable: uses of a kind not conceived of
by the originators, uses, which, jf they has
foreseen, would have led them to destroy their
inventions and suppress their ideas, rather
than release them and thereby put in the
hands of fools weapons for them to harass, Or
even destroy each other wi.th.
Consider the radio. A noble in"ention ;.
an instrutnent to receive quickly important
news from thousands of miles away, an instrument with vast potential applications in the war
on illiteracy, an instrument to bring into every
home great music, and readings from great
literature .. " It is put to all these uses.
One must be fair enough to admit this.
But consider the abuses. Fanatics of aU
kinds use the radio to reach and pervert all
the less literate .sections of the people. In thehands of the filDatic, it is a lethal weapon,
since it gives him an audience of a size not.
otherwise possible. The advertising wallahs·
use the radio to pour out on uS an unmerci~
fut flood of silly rhymes, jingles and songs·
promoting their; wares. And such peace and.
silence as is ~tillieft is shattered by the
popular musicians with their inane melodies.
and equally inane lyrics; jarring, at any
time, but most particularlY so when one is in
a coffee-house. in sacred communion with
onc's cup of coffee; most particularly so,
when. in the mood for silence one goes to·
some quiet and beautiful place, and finds
even there the same old stuff blaring forth
from that portable horror, the transistor radio·
brought along by some other visitor to the
place.
. ... I do not like radios. I have never switched oncen voluntarily, do not own one, would
rather die instead. A somewhat illogical state
of mind, perhaps, for the gadget is not to be
blamed for its misuse. Still, once the limit.
of endurance has been passed, these fine
distinctions drop away, and all that remains.
is a good old-fashioned hatred for the instru·
ment as well as what comes out of it.
Considering all of which, I dimly suspect.
that my whole life is a joke; and that the joke
is at my expense. For, fancy hating the
radio, and at the same time having to be, by
lack of option, a teacher of electronics, the·
tool with which the gadget is made J I should.
resent it, I suppose, and indeed I would hav~,
except that this is not the only jol(c that has·
been played on me. I have learned resignation.

I*

~~~~,*~~~m~~~-~lf~~~~i*,~.~

**
*

m GANDHI CENTENARY CARTOON c(IIIIPEnTION
PRIZE WINNERS

First Prize:

• Wake up'

s.

Jay~prakasam.

**
*

A.C. ';I'ech.
SP Second Prizes: 'Gaudht'an Principles' Miss Alphonsa Joseph, ~
~
Stella Maris
~
~

·

Magidan '

!I'ti Special Prize: • Poster I
~

*I·

~ Consolation Prizes:

~

Ranjan Somiah, TIT
Yogendra Sheoram,

IlT'

Miss Gowri Nayak, Stella Maris.
N. Chandrasekhar, IIT

The Editorial Board congratulates the pr;"e wiDner..

~

~

~

*
~

I
~

~~*mm~~*~-~~~~~t~~~i*~~

