Summer 1970]

CAMPASTIMES

His five year sojourn in this campus is
drawing to a close, as he will. compose in all
probability, wend his weary way Westward.
The name S. Parmeshwaran will go down in
the annals of IITian history as representing a
personality conspicuous because of certain
remark'il.ble qualifications and other equally
remarkable idiosyncracies.
Right on July 2nd, 1965, the day he stepped into the portals of the Institute, he made
news with his characteristic penchant for
florid rhetoric. The most aggressive of
seniors who came to rag, remained to listen.
Few had the verbal courage to tick him off.
His voice echoed in corridor and Mess, expressing in charming Queen's English, dillgruntlement over a daily chore or the impossibility of an impossible lecturer.
However, it wasn't until he had shrugged off
the 'Fresher' brand that Pammu gained
fame. At the Annual Quiz during his second
year he surprised the maestros in the field by
an unforgettable display of memory, inciden·
tally superceding everybody else by a large
margin. Since then, he has won laurels in
scores of quizzes and seldom found a quizzard
to level with him.
I do not know whether it is because he has
the gift of gab or that most others lack it, hut
Pammu inevitably gets a lion's share of the
dialogue in informal chats. At a typical meet~
ing all you would be able to manage is to intersperse a hello, then a few yeses, yas or yeahs
and a warm farewell. The word 'Pummed '
was specialty coined to describe the condition
of a person enduring a spedally long delivery
of his. People of various ranks right from
the Director downwards have had the occasion
to be • pummed '. Pumming is facilitated by
the fact that his average sentence is long. the
clauses attached to one another in such a
fashion that cutting him off in the middle
would appear positively impolite. His voice,
copose known to be heard frequently until
the small hours of the morning, has been founa
to disconcert many an early·to-bed neighbour.
Previously, his monologues were accompanied
by a variable amplitude oscillation of his thin.
long~jawed head.
However, through the
years, these oscillations have been considerably
damped. He speaks more to his audience.
than to his own head.
Just because Pammu makes better use of
the English language he has often been accused of hyperpolysyllabic-$esquipedalianism.
I, for one, disagree with critics; it is his
choice of words to describe even the most
inane situation that puts life into his
conversations.

5

THE.
IMPORTANCE
OF BEING S. PARAMESHWARAN, 'ESQ ..
In this campus of cultural deprivation,
Pammu becomes an exception just because he
happens to appreciate the finer arts: poetry,
drama and music. His knowledge of the
theoretical aspects of earnatic Music is indisputable • when it actually comes to singing,
his voice amuses me. You must have noticed
how his male alto voice stands out as 11 separate strain during Invocations. Excuse me for
talking shop, but I am tempted to compare
the invocation singing to the flow of two
immiscible fluids.
Lest you should conclude otherwise, 1
hasten to add that Parnmu is no prude. He
does use his extra long nose to advantage
when he is • not amused) ; but he is equally
capable of indulging in verbal ribaldry that
would mal(e HMH blush. The world's most

exhaustive collection of purple-tinted limericlts can be found tucked away in the cells of
Pammu's brain. Pammu's column appears
regularly in these pages. 'By the Way'
deals randomly with matters of current and
past-interest ;With a characteristic style that
never seems to stale.
His words"' will soon fade out of these
columns and his exploits might become mere
bywords among Juniors. soon to be forgotten.
But for us who have been as'ilociated with him
for so long, it has been quite an experience.
Conspicuous t>ersonalities and not the run-ofthe-mill IITiins, in my opinion, prevent life
on the campus from being drab.
-VENKATESH MAtofNAR.

N

YOUNG HARCHI AND THE CABARET DANCER
(One of the numerous 'j«r::Well tf) Dr Klein' parties involved
Dr Klein, the Gymkhana represel~tatives and Jome guys, dini1lg at a
jashiollable rcstaUratlt in the city. Hal'charatt S~'ngh, as usual, got more
out olit than anyone else.}
She came whiskiog and prancing across the floor and wiggled her
fanny at him. Hareh.i gaped. It is not everyday that scantily clad
females do the dyspeptic python act around young Harehi, and under~
standabty, he was diddled. His eyes grew large, saucered,
ballooned, and his turban lifted an inch. • Er . • • ur • . •
gurk .•• bleep I' quoth he, in his best conversational style. The
choreographic miracle gyrating round our bewhiskered hero paused in
mid-flight and whispered something unutterably sweet. Harchi's
delicate skin became pink, purple. a poisonou.s shade of maroon. His
spectacles hung precariously at the end of his quivering nose. Snap I
And away went his spectacles, sailing high in the air at the tips of
the young lady's fingers. It took a long moment for the tragic loss to
register on HareM's bemused senses, but when it did, away went
Harchi chasing what he thought was the flight of the spectacles, hands
outstretched, that blind-as-a-bat look enveloping him in the flickering
His friends roared j the loud-loud music clanged on;
candlelight.
Harchi bounced round after his cabaret dancer. The laughter almost
kitled us, Dr Klein was almost in tears, and all the while Barchi
complained he couldn't see and what's th.e use of a cabaret performance
one can't see? ••••
When, some time later, someone suggested we stay on for the
second cabaret, Harchi smiled his winsome smile. held firmly onto
his spectacles and vibrato-nasaled; Halm, let's go, hahl~ I ?

- P.C.V.
'2

Photo: Kubendran

fi

)yfe"lenfo for

3Jr J('lei'l

