8

CAMPASTIMES

[Summer 19.70.

aware of the 'gas-value' of a speil in IIT.
Every column in Campastitnes is full of IIT
and things IITian (but for the rare exception,
which few IITlans read anyway). The IITian
sta~e is laughable for precisely the reason that
it IS too local, tao frivolous, too IITian.
Outside IlT, the IITian i~ characteristically
standoffish, sometimes hep, and the IlTian herd
is frequently boorish: but, next to the • l' his
identity is • lIT ' . However, for all his IlTianism, there are many things about IlT which.
the IITian does not know-does not care to
know.

•

EDITORIAL
CampastimfJs, in the sixth issue of the year,
mu.st make some attempt at recording
the activities of the year, the successes,
failures, and indifferent performances which
figure so large in annual reports. This is
not because Campastitlles has a tradition of
doing this but because, with the end of the
age of Annual Numbers and Gymkhana
Brochures, Gymkhana and general student
activities will go quite unnoticed in the
records if they weren't to find a place on
some printed page.

*

*

*

A part of the last editorial of the year must
perforce correspond to the Report of the
Editorial Board, hitherto masquerading under
the not-so-flattering title of the Publications
Committee. The year has been one of hectic
activity, four regular issues, two special issues
and one Special Supplement marking the ageing of the year. The Board takes this opportunity of thanking all those who have been
actively involved in the work of the Campastimes Committee, and the Administrative
personnel without whose help its work would
have been considerably more difficult. In
particular, thanks are due to the Transport
Cell, and its directing officer, Mr. Dubay, for
services rendered.

•

*

•

Campastimes' is the type of magazine in
which the conventional editorial is completely
out of place. Its facade of semi-hilarity
merging into raving madness, with patches of
strained humour showing through, is unique,
demanding and tiresome. The effect of any
column in a run-of-the-mill issue is not always
what was intended, and the editorial, for various
reasons, has the dubious distinction of being
the least-yead column. Sometimes, the glorious mixture of pontifical nonsense, irrelevant
gas and nostalgic reminiscing in the middle
pages becomes too rich for even IITian
stomachs .•.. the chromatic scale is too wide.
the chords, too discordant. Issues take on
the character of ill-matched patchwork quilts
of caricatures, playful digs at just about any~
body. and editorialish columns harping sober
variations of the same old themes.

•

•

..

A feature common to the issul!s of Campas~
times of the past few years is the touch of
sometimes uncalled-for and perhaps repre~
hensible frivolity. At times, levity serves to
add spice to an otherwise monotonous and
uninteresting narration or description. However. competitive outrageousness has the
habit of becoming obsessive. It becomes a
a way of thinking, almost a philosophy.
Soun, response machanisms are jaded to the
point where nothing registers, not even absolute nonsense. Nonsense surprises and delights only when i~ is unexpected! when. i~ is
woven into a fabnc of sen'3e to Yleld striktng
and thought-inducing contrasts.

The IITian's world of conversation is
circumscribed by himself, his immediate
interests, necessities, and environment. Perhaps this is because he's so busy, perhaps
it's an index of his youth and not-so-mature
personality. He is ne,:cr hll;ppier or m?re
animated than when he 15 talkmg about hlmself or about IIT. Even, when he is running
down the IITian way of life, he exhibits an
extra liveliness that other topics cannot induce. Let an lITian loose in outside society,
and in a minut~ or two outside society is

•

•

Walking down to Gajendra Circle late in
the evening is a typical1y lITian pastime. The
post-prandial stroH, the breather in a spell of
desperate cramming, the let's get away from
it all urge-these are the excuses; the path
one can't miss, the destination, one cannot
mistake. There, sandwiched· between the
Admin., and the Lib., with a nightmare in
concrete zoology for company, one can contemplate the ways of Nature, Man and Fate.
These three entities are proving mighty
bother some to certain other IITians around
the environs of • good old Gaj '.

•

•

•

Barely a stone's throwaway from Gaj.
there's a hostel (well, it's hardly that) inhabited by twenty-odd souls. Inhabited, but not
quite lived in.
For, Sarayu hostel would
hardly bring forth the cry of ' home I' from
even a highly uncritical individual. It's a little
too comfortless for that.
Social life in the Campus, at least as far as
the ladies of Sarayu are concerned is all
but non-existent.
Shutting them up in a
concrete rabbit-hutch in an unsympathetic
and often actively Hostile Campus. is likely to
produce psychological problems, and the least
that the authorities could do is to make sure
that minor comforts and recreational facilities,
quite indispensible even otherwise, are not
lacking.
There's no garden. A ladies' hostel without
a garden! Well, they have a beautiful tarred
patch in front of the hostel, another desert to
the rear, a honeycombed conc£ete box to live
in, complete with little cubbyholes--even windows (!).
Have YOlt seen the wretched little
common room sans curtains, working radio,
record-prayer? Hardly likely, eh, catch you
going there I How could you like it if you had
nO decent TT table, even if your lias tel had
the misfortune of being called Sarayu Hostel'?
No water-cooler, no fridge, not even a misera~
ble ice-box for cokes. No mess. no separate
Hostel Day, cold and unappetising (I) food
every day. Granted they have their own
Warden, Sports Day, and a great many rules:
but they aren't much as consolations.
The girls arc yet a small group and cannot
afford these luxuries; Sarayu dare not bor~
row, regardless of the precedent set by other
hostels who borrow considerable sums when
they first get going; and the saddest part is,
the girls are hardly in any position to help
themselves. The ways of Nature, Man and
Fate in the Campus are not altogether helpful.
Money need not be borrowed. It can be
made available by other methods.
Those
who organised the Campus Carnival presumably had the same idea. However, Campus
Carnivals have an unhappy reputation right
now, sO perhaps it is not very realistic to
expect a suggestion fo! another Campus
Carnival to meet with an enth.usiastic response. Movie festivals are far more likely to
be successful in their aim-namely to raise
finances for the purpose of giving the ladies of
Sarayu a chance to enjoy the minor refinements which make life tolerable in even such
a desert as liT.

•

..

•

Thanks are due to our publisher, Prof.
S. Sampath, and our staff Adviser, Dr Zurn.
for their invaluable help and guidance during
the year.

•

•

We wish our successors the best of fortunes
in the publications business and have every
confidence that they will improve on the
edil:orial standards of the past academic year.

By the Way
The Debating Club is now an established
institution and the Social Studies and Eook
Discussion Groups are on their way to be~
coming So. This makes me very glad. because
I feel that it marks the emergence of our
collec~ive '.vil1!ng~ess and desire to apply
analYhc thmkmg I:to the extra·technological
neld. It is even lnore gratifying to find
that these activities are now causally accepted as part of our normal life. Our deepo
seated distrust of psued9~inteUectualism has
led us to eye askance <:ertain ostentatious
attempts in the past-and rightly so, I feel.
But now, quietly and without fanfare the real
thing seems to have stepped into our midst.
In the area of public communications (i.e .•
Campastitnes. spe~ches and entertainments),
however, there IS all uneasy feeling that
licentiousness has reared its ugJy head. Not
merely as a personal conviction, but also as
an observation made by several people (both
teachers and students) whose views are held
in high esteem, I wish to place on record
that in publiC as opposed to private life, the
norms of good taste can never be relaxed.
It is easy enough to cry 'Prude', but we
must recognize t~e distinction between
b~hness and poise';. between obscenity and
Wit ; between offenslve rudeness and constructive criticism. We must bear in mind
that any unconsidered action in a public
function can create a bad precedent and lead
to further and more damaging breaches of
good taste in the future. It is naive to think
of anyone who offends the conventions as
daring: he is merely rash. Unless we resolve to .revise this ' anything goes' attitude
and subject what we say in print and o~
stage to a stricter scrutiny, we shall find it
easy to lose the reputation which at present
we are fortunate enough to have.

•

*

*

•

The last two months have been, as they
are every year, a frenzied whirl of social
activity. The Carnival, Cultural Week
Sports Day, Institute Day, and the variou~
Hostel Days have come and gone in rapid succession, leaving some of us with the uncomfortable awareness that for us they wiII not come
again. The sands of time are running out,
and the hour-glass cannot be reversed. We
are viewing the lIT ian scene for the last time
as in.siders. Some rtf us may return. but
even If we come back next term it cannot be
the same. The spirit of student life here has
been more or less established as the spirit of
the undergraduate. The rule for being a
member of this fraternity is simple but
inexorable: one must be an undergraduate.
This is not a sudden revelation. It has
been a gradual process, beginning when one
finds one has vivid personal recollections uf
the people and ev;ents of lIT Past, which
have largely lapsed from the memory of IlT
Present. The miasma grows and spreads, so
that the cynical toughness of the first fourand-a~half years is smoothened over (not
smeared over. 1 hope) by a final layer of
sentimentality. Writing on this subject, 1
am irresistibly reminded of something that
Sudarsan (remember Sudarsan? WeIl, it's
all right-I didn't really expect you to) wrote
two years ago. It was an article that began
'The time has come, junior churn,' and he
concluded:
'
Do I hear a murmur' of 'mawkish' ? Now,
now, little fella. Don't be so fastidious. The
time will come when you will say, 'The time
has come .... '
That time has come, Sudarsan. And I
cannot pretend that it is anything but a
wrench. My own consolation is that like a
sundial, 'I mark only the hours of sunshine.'

S.

PARMESWARAN.

We are glad to note that
Mr N. Kalyanaraman will be
the Editor next year.

