Summer 1970}

THE FaM CLUB
As the Walrus said to the Carpenter in
another connection, the time has com~ to
talk of many things. Among other things,
the time has come to talk of the ailing. Fi~
Club and its increasingly frequent exerCIses III
renned sadism.
I would be the first to concede that several
good films have been screened this year. and
also that it is impossible to get an excellent
film every week. Neverth~less, it ~eems to
me that the choice of films IS not bemg made
with as much care as it should be. Disconcertingly often, the films are e,it~er sO; inane
as to constitute an insult to one s mtelhgence.
or when the pendulum swings to the other
extreme stiff 1.Q. tests like Space Odyssey:
2,001. At the end (If a three-periodical week,
.
surely one deserves better than that.
That the choice of films seems to be arbltrary is illustrated by the one sh<'wn duri~g
the last semester exam. At the end of SIX
days of unbearable strain, we saw a prize
Hollywood offering in which the hero w~s
in love with a sergeant, the sergeant ;;as ,~n
love with the hero's wife and the hero s Wife
presumably hd designs on her horse. All
very starkly realistic no doubt. b~t a study of
the psychology of sexual perversl~m>. ho~ever
glamorized, is not my idea of ktcklng It up,
especially when I've just spent three hO';1rs
grappling with 'Switchgear and Protective
devices' • If this trend continues, during the
final exam we shall undoubtedly see • Kin~e~,
Kinsey \' or even worse, ' Bullet-proof Bill •
Rumour has it that the selection of films
is made by a Physical TrainiI?-g InstructO;r,
and that too, not less than SIX months In
advance. It would serve no purpooe to .1~ok
for the connection betwee~ physical tr~mtng
and films. The point I wlsh to make IS that
the choice of films should not be the reSponsibility of a.ny one, person, r~gardless of
his proficiency lD phYSIcal education or other
fields. It would be much too risky to trust
absolutely the taste of a lone selector. Perhaps
next year someOne will think of forming a
Committee •••.

DRAMATICS IN lIT
Picture to yourself a night in March four
years ago. Several IlTians come out of
their hostels. All seem to be going to t~e
same place. But where? If you said
Tiruvanmiyur you're wrong. They were
only going to the house of a German prow
fessor.
. 1
f
That crowd consisted almost entlre y 0
freshers, not yet wise to the ways of lIT. .It
had been proposed to form a Dramatlcs
Club and we were on our way for the
selections, all bright-eyed and hopeful:
The professor ,welcomed. us gr~t'lOusly.
concealing with dIfficulty hlS surpnse that
so many should have turned up, With a
copy of Shakespeare's Complete Works,:-ve
got right down to business. We puteverythmg
we had into it, as one by one we murdered
not only Julius Caesar, but Othe~l?, M~cbeth
and the whole lot. If some good citIzens In the
heart of England heard a rattling sound t~t
night, it was .und?ubtedly Shakespeare turnmg
and turning tn hlS grave.

9

CA·MPASTIMES
The professor and one or two seniors
listened very seriously and even took down
notes. After each display of histrionics, they
went into a huddle and took down more notes.
An audition for a Broadway role couldn't
have been more impressive. When all of us,
aspiring GieJguds and Oliviers, had finished,
we were told by the professor that the results
would be made known with.in a week. In
our innocence we believed him.
We returned hopefully; Ollr heads full of
ideas for the dramatics club-to-be. Impatiently we saw the week pass. A month passed.
a year, two years, four years passed and no:-v
we ourselves are about to pass. We stlll
wonder occasionally if we made it into that
still-born dramatics club of long ago.
In view of aU this, some of us welcomed
with special enthusiasm the formation of a
Dramatics Society this year. We were
determined to share in its successes;
vicariously ·if need be. Unfortunately this
society now appears to be in a state of heavy
sedation. Owingly chiefly to the reluctance
of the women students in the campus to go
on stage (for several interesting though not
necessarily valid reasons), it has not yet been
able to put lip its inaugural play. Since plays
with uIl~maJe casts are rare and when available
unsuitable, the Society is reduced to impotence till the ladies have a change of heart.
Meanwhile indications are that it is heading
fOf the same fate as its predecessor.

S. R. NAIR

IIT cannot be accused of having staged a
single decent play. This is why the history
of dramatics in IIT is particularly depressing.
Other IIT's regularly produce the works of
O'Neill, Hocchuth and the like. (KGP has
an annual Drama competition. lIT Bombay
gives largely-attended performances in the
city.) And lIT-Madras? We content OUfselves with 'skits' about the travails of a
cycle-shop OWner or the love-life of a barber
in Velacheri. You only have to prance about
on the stage like an exceptionally retarded
half-wit to be given the prize for • acting'.
This is not to denigrate these skits, which
do lapse into humour once in a way. Ao; a
form of momentary entet·tainment ~he~ are
amusing enough, so long as they are Inflicted
at respectable intervals. But they should on
no account be allowed to continue as the
common factor of aU entertainment programmes staged in this place.
Until we realize that these highly forgettable
skits are no substitute for Shaw or Wilde or
Miller entertainment in lIT will continue
to rem:ain as it is-untouched by quality.

FAREWELL
The other day they screened that ridiculous
song sequence from • Naa~ Moov~r', and
while all of us were screamIng delIghtedly,
I realized once again that next year I shall
miss IIT.
The first few times I was embarrassedimagine thin~i~g well of IIT 1 Bu~ after
grudging admISSIOns from the most fa~hlonably
cynical of my classmates, I have dIscovered
that these little darts of sentiment nudge not
only me, but, at some time or .the other, mo.st
of those for Whom this hectlc semester will
be the last here.
An exceptionally hardened person may
point ou.t that ,this regret at havi~~ to leave
this Institute IS only natural-ansmg from
man's inherent dislike for change. I reject
this coldly rational view. I would pref:r to
believe that this attachment to the Institute
which one discovers, startlingly, only at the
end of five years. is less a matter of the head
than of the heart.

A Hard Week's Night
The curtain has dropped on yet another'
dreary week. An average dose of three lectures.
in each of the seven subjects have been gulped
down disastefully. Two stinking labs havefallen by the wayside as time marched onA three~hour ' picnic' under the sun (it isn't
my idea of fun, but the survey department
feels so) has given me another sunstroke and
a new coat of tan. God knows how many labs.
have to be cogged and how many tutorials to
be submitt.:d J Jt's a small wonder how I carry
on-much like a crow with a broken wing I
But who Cares I Saturday night is here t
I shall make it a po~nt to reach the amphithea w
tre well in/time for tonight's movie: so I can
see the place filling up. It gives me an
aesthetic satisfaction to see a desolate joint.
slowly getting inhabited, if only for the next
few hours or so (sounds corny, doesn't it c).
A hasty dinner, a slow walk, while orange
rinds mark my trail (I like oranges), and ram
there a whqle three-quarters of an hour before'
the show. II' choose my place on the left of the·
prQjector room-that's where the • in' crowd.
sits. Ugh I Did I have to forget my pillow I
Hell, how does it matter, I mutter resignedly..
Most people do without one anyway.
Nice time to light up. Maybe I'll be able·
to have two before the picture starts. No,.
it will have to be one. I don't have that.
much dough to burn-besides, I must think in.
terms of cutting down my intake. As I let
the thill stream of smoke out of my lungs,.
I let my eyes wander. A couple of lungi-clad
fellows are trickling in from the opposite end.
Slowly they climb the incline and sit down
a little distance away. They are talking very·
seriously. Now one of them grimaces~the:
other chap has probably told his friend where
he went wrong in the second part of the third
problem in the morning's periodical. The
chap who grimaced now knows that he's not
getting an'S'. Poor fink I
Ah! There comeS another bunch. Loud'
and raucous.: They are not talking about the
periodical, r~ther they are questioning the
pedigree of some lecturer. I like them. They
are my type. Now more. Some ladies and.
their uncontrollable children. More cigarette·
smokers. More cigarette bummers. More:
coloured lungis. More white kurtas. Gosh,.
it's really nice to come early' I should do it
more often. Some one says Hi to me. r say
Hi back to him. Here comes one I know
better. I like the amiable look on his face.
He says, Hello, there. More life in this one_
As an afterthought,' 'Oh,' by the way. I read.
your article in Campastimes. Not bad for
a start, yar I' God must have fashioned him:
with His own hands. Much Obliged to him.
Will remember to pass my labs to him, if
he asks. That calls for a cigarette. ' Have
one, yar.' • I have my own, thanks 'So wh~t ?
We murder Enghsb.
Take one, what diff?'
thus, we light UP1 then he excuses himself.
More acquaintances make their way in. One
of them has a positively hostile mask
of a face. Tacit is the word, but not fof'
long. 'I say, I read your ... er ... er ... stuff...
what made yo:U write all that's .. ? It was.
£ $%@@ and i more % $£&%@@.'
There he had to do it. Some people ought.
to know what is liable to muck up a chap'S.
evenillg, a Saturday evening at that! I wlsh.
someone would shoot him at the crack of dawn.
They shoot horse~, don't they? Don' they?
A lot of cronies have joined me by nOW.
A roar! what's it for? Have the Sarayte
girls arrived r No, a slide is being shown asking the Staff members to pay t'P, or else ,.
YAAAAH! A shot in the arm, buddy. Gloom·
seems to be slOWly wearing off. A grave
voice is speaking as It long shot is focussed on
the screen. No one knows what the voice is
trying to say because it is drowned in the
colossal sonic boom, which happens to be·
the signal for the man-in~charge to run down
as fast as his legs can carry him and switch
off the supply to the flood-lights. The horde·
lets out a pleased 'Ahhh', but soon there
are sbouts of ' We've seen it I We)ve seen it I'
just because the' words 'One Man' appears.
on the screen. Reminds me of a sick joke •.•.

(Continued

01!

page

10)

