10

CAMPASTIMES

[Summer 1970

CARICATURE

IF

'you happen to be present in a particular corner of the O.A.1~. 011
Saturd.1Y evenings, and hear cries of Mmho! Mmbo U Mmbo III
you mig~lt easily. be led to believe that it might be some powerful
Bantu chief .fr?m l!le dar~e~t cornel' of Africa ~aking his grand entree
(and such distinguIshed \'lSttors do honour our t10y community off and
~n) or that it "Yas some skinny, slant-eyed Oriental farmers praying
fervently to their gods for a more prosperous harvest. A'ld by rights,
you should not be blamed, for where else would you hear such a
spontaneous ~motional .outburst? But. peer closer and you'd notice
!ha! ~h se cne~ are dIrected at a, dark, bespectacled, stockily built
mdl\tldual clad m a not too cit an pair of shorts, with his lower limbs
caked in drying Vt!lachcri mud, and who by all appearances is
thorougllIy eJljoying himself-as is evidt'nt by his face-splitting grin.
The man y,m see is Kumar Subramaniall-Kimbo for short-one of the
more controversial and colourful personalities going about lIT.
Apart from Kimbo-which his more ardent fans have shortened to
~mho-the only other printable name he has collected during his stay
In lIT is Ala Mobiti-derived most probably from his favourite hero
Al Capone. But Kimbo waS the first and most popular name given to
our fnend. HI! was titled that during our very first month ill IIT
when in a particular movie on African 'WIld Life a double horned rhino
repeatedly k~pt coming on the screen. Ri"'ht across the length and
breadth of our campus he is called that j fro~ the casual Mmbo ! you
hear in the O.A,T. to the reverent Gimboo Saar! of the hockey marker.
So K mba it must be,
When he first joined lIT, Kimbo-a former pugilist and physicaf
culture enthusiast-was a bit vain of the toughness of his muscular
frame. A week later his unalterable opinions were most irrevocably
altel'ed by the more senior residents of the place. All was quiet during
the first year and Kimbo did not honour us with' any of his Herculean
feats of strength, But when he was in his sophomore yea I' the old flame
was kindled again. He went about laying wagers that he would haul
himself to the hostel terrace from the second floor parapet wall. Nob?dy dared him. But Kimbo had to assert his superiority ill gymnastic
Circles too, so on a rainy evt"ning when everyone else was jndoors, he
performed the feat simian-like, his whole mass being supported by a
fraillo.Jk;ng drainpipe protruding out of the hostel roof.
Once (and this is morc recent), after a riotous midnight affair
at--Hostel. when the physical had decidedly gained an upper hand
over his intellectual, he climbed down a rain-drain from the seeond
to the ground floor. brandishing a hockey stick at anybody coming'
.near him.
Gymnastics used to be his forte till he got his Jawa. IIT'roads
~sed to be comparitively safe till Kimbo came along with his mo'bike.
.As soon as he is heard coming, chaps begin to step off the road and,
.cyclists llnd motorists head off into a different direction. But outsiitcrs
are apt to be inconsiderate-they never heeded the IITian warning" a.
mistake they regret to this day. To drive home some sense into them,
Kimbo knocked off a three tonner truck on the Kody road, a coupleoff cyclists and pedestrians on tile Mount Road and innumerable deer'
on the IlT roads. Pillion riders fight shy of him. He's a very steady
rider but chaps don't have confidence in him. They complain that
whenever they ride with him t,hey have to keep turning his head m the
direction they wish to proceed In.
Kimbo's interest is not limited only to Jawa's and Rajdoot>s he's
interested in anything that moves, and moves fast-specially if it has
four legs to move on. He's a very ardent fan of the sport I'm alluding
10 as is evident by the unflagging zeal with which he follows every
m~et. It has been observed by highbrows in equest~ian. circles that he
is the most knowledgeable man in these matt~rs, thiS Side of the Su~z.
Try waking him up ~n the middle. of the nIght and you'll find hun.
rattling off names like Loyal Pnnce. Sunbeam, Ratna , Pancham.
etcetera etcetera-nay. he'd come out with the odds of their
winning too!
.
Kimbo would do well to write his name as Kumar Subramantan
M.P.-the latter standing for Mishap Pr~ne. It is commo!! knowledge
in IITian circles that whatever he does IS sorely beset With troubles.
In one of his junior yf'ars he picke~ up a mo'bike a~ the OAT,
(intentionally or not, nobody can say) did a tour, of the Clty ,and ca~e
back gleefully, only to find that th.e owner was 1n hot purSUIt of hIm.
(Go,ztzlzued from page 9)
A few sensihle fellows point out that • One
Man' is a series and the chances are good
this is a new one.
True enough, Jose
Gonzales the Newspaper Boy, is introduced
to us.
•
The shout is followed by cre(Ut tltles of the
main feature. ' Yeah, yeah' •• , . ' Sweetheart'
.... (Wolf whistles •.•. great fun ...... ' Have a
fag ') a~d the mov~e starts. Lots of gu~s
keep qu'et now, hopIng that that the mOyIe
would be worth it a.t least as a conversatlOn
piece when they return to their hostels. .
The fun is not destined to last long.
Omnious black clouds hovering above do not
forebode a happy ending to the eve.ning's
entcrtainment. Fervent prayers are sllently
offered and I think of a line fr,om Trini
Lopez's song.
<Don't let the rain come down
Oh no, don't let the rain come down' ,
to which I add,

Someone threw a sizeable bundle of fire-crackers in the Asst. Warden's
room and Kimbo got blamed. 011 his way to Kody, he dared a
loery and ended up with three bro,ken ribs. When he came hack
to Madras he broke some more notching up the toll to six. EnterM
ing the boxing ring in the heavyweight class he toted, up th.e score
into double figures and sent guys scrambling to enumerate the
• Kimbo Factor'! Whenever there is a street brawl (and of these we
have quite a few), you are sure to find Kimbo at its epicentre. He
is a very vociferous fighter-his, yelling has more of an effect than
his blows-and his fighting implements range within anything from
a tincutter to a hockey stick. No wonder he's ended up with having
more scratches on his face than a Sudanese head hunter.
·One of Kimbo's most favourite pastimes is regaling-ar so he
thinks-a select audience with some of his tall yarns. They usually
commence with Kimbo saying' Actually'! As soon as he says this,
some of his audience will start gazing upwards, others will cough
djscreetly while some others wiII merely twiddle their thumbs and wait
for the party to break up. But Kimbo, undeterred, will go ahead with
his story. punctuating it with hearty guffaws and violent thumpings of
his hand on the back of the nearest listener.
Another hobby he indulges in is the rigging up of gadgets-electrical
or mechanical.-If he's not tinkering with his mo'bike he'll he fiddling
with his tape-recorder. If that happens to be in working order he'll
be busy designing a novel type of amplifier or transformer for it.
He's even tried his hand at makin~ an X~ray machine. Once he
decided to overhaul his mo'bike. After he had finished up with everything he found that be was left with a sizable pile of parts-parts
that did not seem to fit in anywhere I
Kimbo may be a daredevil rider. he may go about knocking
people off the road, he may climb up pipes and down them, he
may scare kids in the dark. he may perform Qu.ixotic feats like
shooting goats with his T-square, but one thing you can't but help
noticing about this young man, at heart he's a very kind and meek
person; as meek as a-as a words fail me I

B. N.

, OAT's got no roof and
I might bloody well drown'.
But unsea~onal rain just doesn't know when
to come down. Thel'e is always an excuse for
it-' A depression in the Bay', says the morning newspaper. Natme is compensating. If
we are to have faith in that adage, then the
Bay must be an extremely hazardous seaway,
considering that there is a perpetual depression
hi IIT.
The large drops nmv hit me with an increasing frequency and I can't help feeling like
a wet crow with a broken wing.
The flimsy kurta, sticking to my body as if it
were a second skin. is just not enough to see
me through a • wet' movie. The entreaties
from my buddy. to stay for that fiveMsecondscene which has crept ill becaU5C of negli
gence on the part of the ccnsors. just wouldn't
make me budae from my decision which is
to make a run'" for it. But it never rains, it
pours.
Hawaii chappaIs, much like the un·
M

TRIPATHr.

seasonal rain, have a way of letting you
down at the wrong moment. If anyone is
keen enough to watch he would find a hilari~
ous resemblance to my running. The
running of a fat old crow with a limp,
Cursing and fuming (so that I could generate enough heat to combat the gusts of cold
wind), I la~d at the hostel.
Later, changed and warm, I decide to call
it a day (night?). Smoldng what will be my
last cigarette before tomorrow, I try to lull
myself to sleep with poetry-broken crow
with wet wings.
• I would not exchange the sorrows of
my heart ft}l' the joys of the multitude. And
I would not have the tears that sadness
makes to flow from my every pal't turn into
laughter. I would that my life remain a
tear and a smile, ..• A tear to unite me with
those of broken heart; a smile to be a sign of
my joy in existence'.
-HYDER.

