12

CAMPASTIMES

[Summer 1970

-------------------------------------------.------------~------

HEIL~

DEUTSCH MANN!

On many an evening, a solitary figure mav
be seen trundling along the dark road past
the Bank and the circle towards the HSB.
:Baggy trousers muffling the shuffle of his
feet. the singular sight of sleeves flapping at
his elbows, the BinacaMcharm wrist watch, the
slipping spectacles-aber naturIich, er ist Herr
Sharma. A man of letters (AngloMDeutsch
letters), he exudes German.
Perched in his eyrie atop the Humanities
and Sciences Block, which as its name implies,
houses Humanitarians, Scientists and BlOCK.M
heads, he condescends now and then to impart
to coarse Commoners a Pinch of German:
when he is not in his gloriously wrathful
mood.
His mode of teaching German is an
innovation in modern Indian t,echnology, the
fruit of Indo-German collaboration.
He
keeps his audience on their toes perpetually.
His disciples have to summon all their
slumbering powers of concentration to focus
on his utterances and discover if they are in
German or in English. They burn their
brains out in trying to decode his messages.
One moment he sets them afire with a
devastating diatribe against the national slave
mentality;
agaipst our characteristically
abject subjugation to Occidental domination;
against the spirit of self-confidence of which'
we are so obviously devoid; against our
cowering cowardly shamelessness revealed in
(Jur booing him. The next instant, he freezes
our attention onto something more appropriate,
Abschnitt Drei. Once it is deciphered, we
revel in the topsy-turvy maze of German
sentences.
Herr Sharma endowed with the Divine
Right to propound the sophisticated fact that
the German future does not express futurity,
is fond of making statement such as, ' I will
have seen you in the theatre yesterday. •
Herr Sharma was understandably at sea in
-the last part of Yesterday, Today, and TOlnor;row.
I Will
he have been wrong then?'
Nein, Nein.
Herr Sharma manifests the prodigious perspective of an Indian viewing English through
German eyes. Der Gott saVe the Raja I The
consummate fluency with which he inarticulates between English and
• Deutsche
Sprachlehre fur Auslander t, both simultaneously, is but one of his varied talents.
While I was pondering over the extent of
homosexuality in ancient Athenian culture,
my philosophising, nurtured so well in the
environment of the rear benches, was suddenly
fragmented by a shatterjng roar. LO AND
BEHOLD I Thunder hurled from the mystical

Inside Story of Our
Man Pammu

dmter in th~se omnipotent hands; bolts of
lightning flashed from behind those allfocussing spectacles; a torrent of half-formed
gibberish echoed in the room. What causeth
this Olympian ire, the inexorable rage of my
master, the Lord of the Pantheon, the a11Father Zeus, Herr Sharma? Two outdated
words on the blackboard, lieil Hitler! Ah,
what regal allergy I
But yet, only after the first periodical can
one sound the unfathomable depths of this
philanthropic heart, from which springs his
Deutsch. This versatile YOUNG linguist is
definitely our prized possession. Sealing this
humble tribute in the unmistakable (and
deplorable) lexicon of IlT, Madras, 'Herr
Sharma iot viel sexy' .

S. Parameshwaran will. soon be a young
aeronautical engineer. And by Crikey, I've
got something to tell you about that.
Let's start with the summer training at
MIT. His anxiety to get things right and
his belief in accuracy are so great that even
while selecting spanners he used vernier
calipers to get the size right. Hushed whispers went round among all the instructors
aD;d they decided not to disillusion the young
mmd.
Next in line comes the Bangaiore episode.
After three weeks of shop visits at the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd., and watching the
HF-24 being made from scratch, Pammu
took the instructor aside and whispered to
him, ' Where are'the propellers? '
At Kanpur in winter, during our Flight
Tests, the Cessna took off one morning only
to land immediately. And the pilot threw
Pamm~ out at the end of the runway, yelling,
, Don't ya dirty my aircraft again! The
young aemnautical engineer staggered back to
t~e hangar, muttering, 'Flying isn't my
hne.'
So when Air-India offered him their best
compliments and asked when he will be leaving for the US. he replied, ' ...... by ship if
you please.'
The human Iside of Pammu is more intriguing. E,ren ~he watchman can tell you
that Pammu hns five aunts and a horde of
cousins
In his first year at Ganga. Pammu adopted
the unique fashion of going to the mess in
his banians. ~he chapter came to a sudden
close, however, when a fresher asked him for
, some more dil '.
Pammu thinks that gin is only for ladies.
He reads aloud witli great skill and taste. He
takes great pains to conceal his accomplishments, indeed aU the pains that others take
to display theirs. His favourite stars are Sir
John Gielgud, Rudolf Valentino, Sir Lawrence Olivier, Marlene Dietrich and Tallullah
Bankhead, none of whom he's ever seen.
People often ask us Aeros how we manage
to get along with Pammu. Bony's thumb rule
provides the best answer. • Never give him an
opening!' That is, if, for instance, Pammu
announces at the mess that he's just received
a letter from his aunt delta, don't show your
curiosity. Just nod silently, concentrate on
your dal and leave the rest to God.

IUKB.

-CHETTIAR.

s
p

o
R

T
S
Na/'endra Kumar

D

R. D. Cflillal'

A.

Y
P
I

X
Her/' Haedke

Photo: Kubendran

