Summer 1970J

CAMPASTIMES

TIlE

13·

DEUTSCHE

LEGEND
OF
• Borne people, t H. G. Wells observed, • can
be thought of only as caricatures.' When
Rudolf Lobo hears that he might feel kinda
flattered. But then, it hardly takes someone
of H. G. Wells' calibre to observe such things.
Not with Loco around, anyway.
If you still haven't got an idea of what the
horror looks lik'!. you have to look elsewhere
in this page. He looks just like. this 'ere
piece of art: a wee bit longer tban the normal
run of human beings. To young and old
alike, Lobo presents a problem. He cannot
be overlooked. One might barely succeed if
one tries hard enough; witness the trouble he
has managing the tiny t\lt5 round his legs and
shooing away dogs with ulterior motives.
Lobo is.essentiallya very self-concious person. He longs to be of normal physical stature.
He dreams of the day when he will be named
by Time magazine as the shortest member of
the All-America Basketball team. (If this
column degenerates into something like The
Disaavantager of being B,obdigltagian. only
Lobo is to blame.) Much to his chagrin.
Lobo had to parade in his dungarees before
Lt. Subramaniam for two whole years. He
couldn't even get into the lIT omnibus on
Saturday afternoons. But gone are the days
when Lobo was put ttl so much trouble.
Nowadays he rides along merrily on a scooter,
nibbling away at the speedometer.
After some painf111 attemps at philandering,
Lobo has discovered that pretty gir Is are not
his dish. He only gets to smell the coiffure,
and well, anything below is beyond his reach.
Academically, too, Lobo's height is a disadvantage. TNG asserts in his lectures that
Lobo and his like are the root cause of the
inferiority complex so prevalent among the
lecturers.
In July '67. when Lobo was busily prepa·
ring for his two weeks of quarantine i~ the
wardens' quarters he got a bigger shock than
he had bargained for. The hushed and awed
whisper of • Lobo' amongst the freshers
reached the men up there. who decided to get
tough. Consequently Lobo was not allowed
to appear for a whole cycle of periodicals:
which accounts for the fact that he's still
round the place.
Lobo employs certain unorthodox methods
to obtain medical certificates from the doctor.
Once, Lobo walked into Dr. Shanta's foom,
looking as dreadful as ever and asked politely
fox an M.e. She was understandably bewi1d~
ered by this as nothing seemed to be wrong
with him (except the usual things, of course).
• What may be your complaint?' she ventured to ask.
Lobo is not as imaginative as, say, • Ayub
Khan •• He held his breath. smiled sheepishlyand said, « Anything you say. Ma'am.' Not
till he reached the hostel did he find out that
his complaint was, of all things, vertigo.
. The chief (and only i) virtue of Rudolf
Lobo is his skill in practical electronics. He
is the sole successor of JET Sargunar in the
field of making nonwamplifying amplifiers.
Rashad says that his amplifiers) when hung
upside down, are the finest works of junk
sculpture this side of Chicago.
Having been Gen. Sec. of Ganga, Lobo is
certainly one of the more famous guys in the
Campus (why. you see him even in Carnival
ads). One shudders to think of the fate of
stereo-rigs without Lobo round to repair
them. When he leaves. he will be missed
very much not only by those who' know him
personally but also by the multitudes of IIT
who know him only by sight (Egads, what a
sight I).
-VINOD BHATLA.

LOBO

MUSEUM

IN:
MUNICH
- A Mecca for

Scientists and
Engineers
Dr ZORN
There are many Meccas-those of religions.
philosophies and arts as also those of science
and tecl:tnology. In the twenties, physicists.
for example, went to Gottingen while today
scientists and engineers would probably like
to go to the remotest parts of the world-the
United l:?tates, Europe or Japan. In this list
of Meccas should also be included the
• Deutsche Museum" in Munich, which is a,
very important • pilgrim centre' of scientists.
engineers and others. But what exactly is the
secret of its unique cilarm and fascination jl
The renowned German engineer Oscar von
Miller (1855-1934), the builder of many power'
plants-among which the Walchen sea-powerplant deserves special mention-founded an
educational institute for teChnology and
science in the year I903. the like of which
exists nowhere else in the world. With the
the German State, Science and
assistance
Industry, Oscar yon Miller built a museum,
which was quite out of the ordinary. Instead
of arranging lifeless objects in long rows and
inscribing them as is usual with explanatory
notes, he swerved from the beaten track and
attemp~ed to represent the vast fields of scien~e
and technology by using ac.tivated models and
by systematic arrangement, such that the
visitor is led through the centuries, starting
from the primitive inventions to the latest
technological developments. The fundamental
laws of physics are elucidated to him by means
of siniple apparatus, which can be operated
by hand. In :figurative representations. by
erecting entire workshops or through mining
operationR. complex. technical processes are
explained; the stages of extraction and'
processing of important raw materials, commencing from the first steps until the final
product is obtained, are most lucidly traced.
It has thus been made possible to follow-up
with the aid of lively illustrations the growth
of industry, from the times when flint stones
were first, used to. produce 'nre, to the modern
times of the most advanced steam turbines ;.
the manufacture of textiles in the times of
the lake dwellets to the modern weaver's
looms of today. The splitting of the atom
too can be observed in models. A technical
library containing about 500,000 volumes,_
scientific documents and portraits supplements
the enormous collections and demonstratjonmodels etc. Thus the museum is both a hall
for experimentation as also an illustrated book.
to learn out of. Nowhere else does such an
exhaustive collection exist with similar facili~
. ties for demonstrations, as in tilis German
institute on the banks of the Isanr in Munich.
It is verily a pilgrim centre for scientists and
technologists and more so for youth in quest
of knowledge-and it should also become a
pilgrim centre for amateurs in the fields of
science and technology. Einstein once said:
• Anyone who thoughtlessly benefits from thewonders of science and technology without
learning about them, would be no different
from the. cow which happily tucks away the
grass' without learning one single word of the
, botany of plants, and should be ashamed of
oneself.' In Munich one can understand and
lcarn to respect these wonders by looking at
the "technological and scientific achievements.

of

~.

