CAMPASTIMBS

[Suri:un:er,1910
~ufficient

General secretary's Report
If I were to give one word to describe the
activities of the Gymkhana for this year, I
would say-eventful. But this word has been
so often used in the past that it could never
do justice in describing this yeat's activities.
It would not be an idle boast to say that our
student body has shown remarkable enthusiasm which has led to a string of splendid
"Successes inside and outside Madras-3,6.
-The event that caught everyone's imagination most vividly was of Course the Campus
Carnival. This fair was organised on a scale
never before attempted in Madras-after all,
air-dropping ad leaflets is not normal pro,cedure for fairs-nor is fleecing Indian Industry
-of nve thousand rupees worth of advertisements. All the credit for the Carnival must
go to the entire student community-all of
whom participated in one way or another.
For our sportsmen. this has been an exceptionally good year.
All of you know that our team excelled
-themselves at the InterwIIT Sports Meet held
.at Kharagpur-from the rock bottom position
·of the past to reach one of the top positions
:speaks extremely well of our sportsmen.
,We have not been idle in the city sports
either-our teams have continued to win
laurels they normally do. The Hockey~
Tennis an~ Shuttle Badminton teams, in
-particular, have made a name for themselves.
In the intellectual sphere we had our
,customary,Cultural Week and a host of other
functions. This year's Cultural Week saw
unprecedented student co-operation and parti.cipation (sometimes of the wrong kind).
Mrs. Nayantata Sahga1 was the Guest of
honour at the Valedictory function.
In spite of pessimism at the beginning of
·the year on the standard of our debators,
ample talent exposed itself at the selection
round for the Institute team. After making
a reputation for themselves in Madras, our
,debators went on to Kharagpur to bag any
trophies they might have had. Our Quiz
-team too brought credit to the Institute.
:They emerged victorious from every Quiz in
'which they participated.
Our IlT this' year witnessed a sudden
profusion of groups of literary and scientific
'activity. The appearance of groups such as
"the Debating Club, the Dramatics CIlJb and
the Social Sciences Study Group is most
,encouraging. They have helped to blow the
myth tha~ w? IITians are incapable o~ any
serious thlllking other than on the tOpiC of
engineering.
So much for our achievements. I feel that
my report would not be complete without
highlighting certain problems and suggesting
'remedies for these.
Every year's report has made a mention of
the so-called staff-student relationship. It is
'with distress that I feel that I have to
'mention it once more. Qur staff and students
cannot be said to form a homogeneous body.
Gymkhana functions are looked upon by the
-staff as something frivolous and not really
worth their time and attention-this does not
-of course apply to the Saturday movies where
the staff participation is exceptionally good.
One cannot hold the staff or the students
'responsible for . this attitu~e. A. careful
examination of thiS problem 1$ reqUired. A
1I01ution would be to tackle this problem at
the Hostel level. Most of the Hostel assistant
-wardens are characterised by a complete lack
of sympathy with, or understanding of students.
'These are the people who could be our links
with the test of the staff community. After
all eleven Hostels have 22 Asst. Wardens and
th~y should provide the motive force for a
-sound student-staff relationship. These are
the people who must be selected with care.
Coming to the Gymkhana itself, the Secre~
tades have often been among the students
unable to generate the enthusiasm that they
themselves have and are often quite alienated from the student body. It is often a
case of the Secretaries acting for the students
rather than with the students. This can be
remedied if the system of elections were
<:hanged. The elections for the post of
Secretaries should be by the entire student
<:ommunity rather than a group of Hostel
representatives. They could then identify
themselves completely with the students.

As the Gymkhana itself grows we note with
dismay that it is becoming more and morc of
a bureaucratic set up with its accompanying
red-tape. A sanction for the smallest function
always mean hours of lectures missed in
chasing after signatures and counter
signatures.
Entrusting all sanctions and requisitions of
the Gymkhana with. its President would expedite matters greatly and enable a far
smoother functioning of the Gymkhana and
associated bodies.
With the coming of the Inter-lIT Meet to
Madras this year, I think it is time we opened
our eyes to the sad state of the type of
coaching available to our sportsmen. Unless
professional coaches are hired alld our sportsmen properly trained, any sports victory will
be solely due to individual merit. There is
no need to stress the importance of systematic
training.
Towards the end, I would like to make a
rather novel suggestion put to me by one
of the staff members. Cannot Campastim6s
carry appraisals and ratings of teaching staff
by students? This might keep some of the
staff ·on their toes. After all, if students can
be rated by their lecturers, there is no reason
why lecturers cannot be rated by us. •
Dr. Klein wHl be leaving us this year after
leading the Institute Gymkhana to the height
of its glory.
Dr. Klein has always been with the
students. His fine sense of humour cou.pled
with his enthusiasm hllS always been a
source of inspiration even during rather tough
times.
.
On behalf of the student community of this
Institute, I offer to Dr. Klein our best
wishes.
In condusion I would like to thank
Dr. Ramachandran. Prof. Sampath and our
Regil>trar, Prof, Sethunathan for being, extremely helpful and understanding.
My thanks also go to the staff advisers of
the various Committees.
-

BALAKRISHNA NAMBIAR.

• Our opinion of the Staff is well known.

LITERARY COMMITfEE

REPORT
An eventful year has come to a close:
during the year, the literary activities of
the Institute Gymkhana had a prominent
role to play. The internal competitions and
the external participation did keep our
talented teams in trim, and the organizers
very busy.
The Annual Quiz was the first event to
be completed. Dr N. Klein was the quizmaster. Nothing unexpected or unusual
happened that evening. M. S. Srinivasan
and S. Parameshwaran came out on top.
Some new talent was unearthed: P. Balakrishnan was the discovery, and he has already
distinguished himself in inter-collegiate
competitions.
The motion for the Amtual Debate was
• Should Capital Punishment be Abolished ?'
Fourteen hopefuls debated on this rathel'
hackneyed topic. All of them seemed to
have laid their hands on the same book of
Law-at least eight used the expression,
• a tooth for a tooth, an eye for an eye'.
Mr. P. Chidambaram, one of the judges
that evening, made a very impressive speech
in summing up the proceedings of the evening.
Our call for entries for the Annual Debate
brought in as many as forty-seven entries.
Apart from leaving the Literary Committee
flabbergasted, this flood brought to light a
very important deficiency. It meant that
there simply wasn't any opportunity for
people to pick up and develop the art of
public speaking. The Debating Society was
conceived, and uptil now, it has held as many
as eight debates. This society, with. its
growing membership, aims at providing

opportunity for public speaking to
lts members.
The next competition was the Group Discussion. Over the years, the popularity of this
event has been on the increase.
The last
year's runners,up ",ere this year's winners
(V. S. Krishnan and team). They discussed:
Hope for all mankind lies in the USA r
When the Brai1ts Trust programme was
organized in 66-67. it was a big hit. Again,
this year an equally interesting programme
was conducted. Questions poured in and the
Brains rose to the occasion. There were
nQ casualties.
The other intramural competitions held
this year were the Inter-Hostel Quiz and the
Inter-Hortel Debate. Ganga retained the
K. V. Ramasarma trophy for the Quiz.
Saraswati had little trouble at the Debate.
The Cultural Week was a splendid success.
A lot has alr~ady been said and written about
it. But a few points could be emphasised.
For ,the first time as many as four teams from
outside the State participated in the Open
Debate. AU the literary competitions were
dominated by IlT-K.GP: they went back with
two ~rophies and narrowly missed a third. It
is a problem to find a suitable place to hold
the inter-collegiate events during the Cultural
Week. The question, OAT or CLT 1., was
asked till the eve of the week. Finally, it was
the CLT. The effect of a jam packed CLT
with a highly appreciative and vocal audience
could be unnerVing.
It was a very successful year for IlT as far
as participation in external competitions went.
We participated in eight inter;'coJ1egiate
quizzes and nine inter-collegiate debates. The
quiz team remained unbeaten and the del;laters
brought ho~e four trophies. M. S. Srinivasan
remained in top form right through the year.
Amongst the debators. V. S. Krishnan;
B. Kumar and H. Shankar did very Vtell.
Our debating and quiz teamS participated in
the Spring F.estival at IlT-KGP. The teams
brought bacit both the quiz and debating
trophies. This was a fitting finale to the
external participation.
Apart from quizzes and debates, ITT
participated in two seminars. It is understood that our teams did make a positive
contribution at these seminars.
Though a report calls for a swnming up of
the various activities during the year, it could
hardly justify its place in this issue of
Campastimes unless it included some observations.
It is rather surprising to note that debates
are no longer debates. To those who have
attended them. this statement will not sound
enigmatic. Sadly, our debators come so
thoroughly prepared with their material, that
they cannot punch holes in their opponents'
arguments.
On-the-spot observations are
Our debates have been
rarely made.
reduced to mere elocution competitions. This
state of affairs could be remedied by providing sufficiep.t opportunity for extempore
speaking •.';. the Debating Society might
perhaps help.
During the year, we have received extensive
cooperation from various department. But
with.
due thanks to them, one strongly feels
that an independent Gymkhana could be
more effective. It is necessary to render
the Gymkhana, as far as possible, independent
of the other deparunents as regards equipw
ment and services. To put in a nutshell the
advantages accruing from this. there will be
less delay and frustration. Running round
would be minimized, if not eliminated.
As the lights are dimmed and the curtain
brought down on yet allother memorable
year, I remember the fantastic work put in
by all the students in the sphere of literary
and cultural activities. 'Their participation,
interest and enthusiasm kept us going. The
assistance and guidance that we received from
different people brought immense encouragement. To all of them, Our debt is great. In
this connection, special thanks are due to
Dr. A. Ramachandran. Dr. Klein, Prof.
Sampath, and Prof. Sethunathan.
I take thiil opportunity of wishing the next
committee all th.e best and I do hope that the
light of ~IT (M) remains undimmed in the
literary field.

an

I::IARCHARAN SINGH,

Secretary,
Literary Committee.

