Summer 19701

15

Report of the
CotnlT1it:tee for
External Affairs
The Committee, composed of class representatives of the various courses, was constitued
at the beginning of the year, with Prof.
R. K. Gupta and Mr Ebert as Staff
Advisers.
The year's activities began with a series
of meetings with the Deputy Director, at
which some of the more irksome difficulties
faced by the students were raised, and solutions sought for. Some of the more concrete
results of those meetings were: (I) The installation of a water-coolerin the MSB (so what if it
doesn't work?) (2) Greater flexibility in the
periodical schedule and the shifting over
of periodical days to the present system of
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. (3) The
intermittent exam time-table of the last
semester, (4) The presence on the Campus of
some Railway staff at the end of the last
semester to facilitate train reservations for
IlTians.
This year, the Science Fair organisation
was taken over by this Committee. Mr
Ebert was extremely helpful in making
available workshop facilities from the beginning of the year itself. These facilities could
be made use of even on Saturdayaftetnoon,
provided sufficient warning was given. There
was greater originality this year, in the proj ects
and this resulted in a more colourful Science
Fair.
.
We tried to organize a sort of Hobby
Centre where people could potter around
with a lathe, a drilling machine or something
of the like, hut this attempt was abortive.
Perhaps future Committees will be able to
tackle this problem more successfully.
N. B. Considering the sphere in which the
Committee was active this year. its name
should be changed to 'The Committee for
Internal Affairs'.

C. K.

Stafl- Student Relationship
Very often we hear people say that staffstudent relationship must be improved, and
equally often a tirade is launched agaillst the
existing system of education, a system that
encourages' spoon-feeding'. Very often the
complaint is heard that students confine themselves to class notes and one or two textbooks and that lecturers, by dictating notes,
stunt the development of the students. The
students defend their position by saying that
the best text-books are almost always on
long~term loan and the lecturers defend theirs
by saying that most of the students are
extremely unwilling to go to the library and
consult the books in the reference section.
Having blamed each other, the parties find
that no solution is in sight, though the
problem has been identified, stated. restated,
modified and, in general. made much of.
The solution I propose may not be an
effective one. Nevertheless I do suggest it
because the existing state of affairs demands
thinking, constructive thinking.
Right from the first year onwards, every
student must be required to select one subject
for individual study. He will be required
to study this subject on his own-in the
sense that no lectures will be arranged for
him, though he will always be free to
approach any member of the staff dealing
with the subject for advice and guidance. At
the end of the year he will be required to
take an examination in that subject and the
grades obtained by him will be entered
in the grade card.
However the marks
scored by him in the subject will be included
in the total only if it z'mproves kis average. We
can thus ensure that there is no risk involved

in it; in fact it will give the student an
opportunity to make up for any lack of
proficiency in compulsory subjects. The
question now is. how will this improve staffstudent relationship?
You often feel that a lecturer does not know
his subject if he is not able to teach well.
You may be surprised when you 'meet him
in his room. However, the fact is· that we
seldom meet our lecturers outside the classroom. If 1his system can' preCipitate the
necessity for meeting outside the classroom, it
may well improve staff-student relationship.
In these days when there is so much. talk
about student representation in university
senates, this experience of individual study
will stand a student in good stead if he is
to participate in discussions relating to the
framing of syllabi. In fact, without giving
students an opprotunity to gain this experience,
there is hardly any point in talking about
student representation in these bodies. This
experience .will also help a student develop
the habit Of studying a subject on his own,
something which might bring about vast
improvements in the standard of education,
because the teaching standard in our univerM
shies is noth.ing much to write home abou.t.
If it is accepted that the system will enable
a student to develop the habit of studying on
his own and that this in turn will do him good,
then nothing need stand in the 'Yay of
implementing the suggestion-in short, we
needn't bother about whether staffMstudent
relationship will actually improve. If may be
just a by-product of the new system.
I

-R. VnWiAGHAVAN.

Left: H. K. Panigrahi

K. S. Dabas
Below: B. K. Pan;grahi

SHARMA.

RESULTS OF ANNUAL
INSTITUTE WEIGHT-LIFTING
AND BODY-BUILDING
COMPETITIONS
Weight~liJting :
I.

~.

3.

H. K. Panigrahi
Prabhakar
A. M. Gunda

Mr. Strongman:
I.

K. S. Dabas

z. H. K. Panigrahi
3. H. S. Patwardhan

Mr. lIT:
I.

B. K. Panigrahi

z. H. K. Panigrahi
3'

S. K. Gangopadhyay

The team championship went to

PIlotO: Boss P. Das.

TAPTI HOSTEL

Wear

Avoid 'em

like the plague!

ARMOR
Plloto: Kubendran.

