16

CAMPASTIMES

ONE OF THOSE

LOVE-HATE
RELATIONSHIPS
Some things have a deceptively sly way of
working themselves into one's system and then
'never letting go. One is stuck with them for
life whether one likes it or not. • . • .• like
some old songs whose tunes always persist
somewhere in the subconscious. but are never
quite recaptured.
It would be disconcerting if I were sudden~
ly asked to define the charm this life has for
me. Logically and objectively, five years of
rigorous imprisonment in this campus (two
years in the case of some lucky ones like me)
ought to be enough for anyone. We ought
to be rarlng to go out into the big bad world
to make our respective fortunes. But oue
strong streak I notice in myself these days ••••
my enthusiasm for getting the hell out of
here is directly proportional to the number
of days left. 1 find layers and layers of sen~
timentality in me that I never knew existed.
Memories •••• all sorts of them. Of days
spent in light~hearted chatter; fonowed by
last minute, desperate, do-or-die cramming
sessions before periodicals. Of companion.
ship •••• walks on long roads with friends
when the Meaning of Life was discussed
seriously. Of Mob Hysteria in the OAT;
of total and complete involvement with things,
almost crusades; of disenchantment and
cynicism; of fresh and' gay laughter; of
crude jokes and rosy idealism; of ral"e and
'precious meetings with people when the eternal social masks were not needed, when
people forgot their • images' and gave them'selves a breathing spell between periods of
mocking self-deception; memories ••• all
'sorts of them.
It is very difficult, physically tiring. to live
up to reputations and' images'. And the
longer one keeps up such • fronts " the more
,difficult it becomes to get rid of them. I must
admit I have met very few • natural • people
in this campus. But then, I met very few
'people altogether. Anyway, the ones I did
meet. the boys. are very busy being • hep' or
·with the in-crowd. and the girls have their
sedate middle~class respectability to look
:after. They are good girls, they are. I am
-of course omitting the few unfortunates who
have no interest in things other than grades and
-exams. I can only say, I hope they are
happy in their very limited sphere of acti-vities.
The point I am trying to make is this:
-mob opinion can be a devastatingly ruthless
-dictator. I wonder how many of our campus
heroes really enjoy tearing round Gajendra
-Circle on their mo'bikes, at speeds which
<:ause considerable risk to their personal
-safety and well-being. It is considered manly
and dashing to do so and hence let Us be
'fashionable or die. Our OAT entertainments
would not be so infantile if they were not
-governed by the cardinal rule of what' goes •
'with the crowd. In fact, it seems very foolhardy of me to risk my neck writing an
.article,like this for the official mouthpiece of
the Establishment, Campastlmes.'"
I am not saying that all the boys should
turn into perfect little gentlemen and all the
girls (the few that there are) should turn
into ladies. That will be quite a boring state
of affairs. By all means, have your saffron
robes, your bushy sideburns. your beads and
your whatnot. Carry on full steam your
noble crusade against rules. regulations.
assistant wardens, good English, security
officers .•.. anything you please. Only be sure
you are doing it because you want to. not
because the hippi.es in the USA have shaggy
hair, or so and so is my hero and he is
rude to assistant wardens, or the latest • in •
thing is to make up your own grammar as
you go along. I plead for more spontaneous
and genuine • irresponsibility' rather than
this studied and deliberate effort to impress
others. Our world is so topsy~turvy that We
have to hide any decenc.y, good mannel"S and

such conventional 'niceness' from prying
eyes and act tough before we are accepted. I
quake even as I write this article. Sometime ago
there was a meek article in Catnpastimes asking for more' seriousness ' in the campus ....
ana boy, did that aspiring author get his
money's worth of publicity by way of indig~
nant letters to the editor! I, however. have
enough sense to risk the same fate just before
I leave the campus •... I can always turn tail
and run for dear life if the going gets rough.
The days of small worlds are rapidly com~
ing to an end. The world is getting smaller,
bu~ our ~ ~vorlds ' are getting larger and larger.
It 18 excltmg and scary. There is a compli~
cated mixture of feelings .. _.• of impatience
to get into the mainstream of things and yet
the hesitation to leave the safe backwaters.
Never again will it be quite this way.
Never again old enough to know what's happening and young enough to do as one pleases
~bout it. .... and getaway with it I. ... possesed
of the tacIt and unspoken belief that somehow
we 3re not mediocre •.• that great things are
waiting to be done •••.• by us. Never again
this leisurely chance to find our own niche
in the scheme of things.
-CHAYA RAo.
• ( ?-Ed.)

GAS
STOP 'EM HOLS
• Okay guys, pile in.'
, What's eating you, Chief?'
• The damned holidays.'
• Which one? '
• The ones they wangle out of us after
every function.'

·Oh'.
• We got to put a stop to it:
• Why didn't you say no ? '
'Funny, very funny. You haven't had a
bunch of ugly mugs crawling every other
half hour into your room. 'Please, sil"
.... I think this warrants a day of rest}
'Sir. We came second at the Inter~IIT.
Surely Monday •.•••• c You put your foot
down and shove the moron out, another
one crawls in •••. •
C Easy boss, they're just kids '.
• Kids 1 We're going to let 'em loose on the
world in a l'il while. Men, that's what
they gotta be. Not cheapskates whining
for hols.'
• Hey. Chief •... don't you feel guilty passing these guys off as stupendous goods.'
• Never mind that one. How do we stop
the hols.'
• Just say no.'
, That don't work.'
'Grab 'em reps. Tell them their crowd's
got two days. They can take 'em when
they want it.'
c That don't work either.'
~Why? '
• The Gym. Pres. wants one, too/
c Stumped, ain't we ? '
• Oh, come on, wherc's all the brilliance that
I normally see?
'Here comes. Chief. Declare all Mondays
holidays.'
, Traitor I I didn't mean that sort of
brilliance. '
, Cut down their vacation.'
Oh no, I wouldn't want them around for
morc than 8 months.'
• Then plain give up for the mo.'
, And in th.e meanwhile pray: Dear Lord,
if you must strangle important perso·
nages next year, strangle 'em on Saturday
afternoons •.'
-AAJOO.
I

[Summer 1970

Letters to -the Editor
Sir,
There have been derogatory references
ad nauseam, to staff-student relationships.
Several rec~nt speeches have bristled with
them. Wc would like to know what constructive progress these speech-makers think they
have ach.ieved with their ill-timed and unoriginal remarks.
The attitude that staff~student relationship
is a responsibility of the staff, which they
have miserably bungled so far, is bec.oming
itlcreasingly annoying. There has been remarkably little enthusiasm on the student side
to make any overtu.res. If we are conceited
enough to think we can sit tight and wait for
our teachers to approach us, how much mOl"e
decided they should be that the first approach
should Come from us.
We should like to point out that staff~
student relationship is a Sum of personal
relationshi!)s between A and Band Mr C and
Mr D, not It frigid exchange of trivialities
between two collective and faintly hostile
groups. As a matter of fact we have consi~
derably better staff.student relations here than
in most other Indian colleges and univerl;ities.
That they will bear improvement is a matter
for earnest, and sincere effort on a personal
scale.
Be that as it may, this problem concerns
only tht: tltaff and the students. The probability of any of our illustrious Chief Guests
getting inspirations and solving the problems
on the spot is admittedly remote. This
being so, we feel there is no need for us to
wash our dirty linen in public•
In short, it is time to stop ranting, and
start doing something> creative towards better
relations. Speech-makers please note.
Yours etc.,

S.
K.

PARAMESHWARAN,
KALYANAllAMAN.

*
Dear Mr. Editor,
Apart from 'Over a Cup of Aye Aye Tea ...
• From Here and There' is a venerable
column continued ever since the inception of
Campastimes. Though I respect Mr. Paramesh\Varan~s individuality, the matters covered by his • By the Way' are nothing different
from that of Mr. Randhava's (the originator
of • From Here and There '). It is disquiet.
ing to note this column losing its importance in the format of our Canzpastitnes. ,You
seem to feel that staff' members do not contdbute to Campastim(l$. Why not hand over
this column to us and see whether your
criticism is weU.based.
V. ANANTARAMAN,

Humanities, lIT.
We thank Dr. Ana1'taraman for his suggestion : it coincides with our viefliS. A member oj
the Staff, Mr. Ant01t)' Reddy, has cons6tltid
to provide. us with material fOT a regulaT
column. '
Staff participatum itl Campastimes, provided it is sufficiently rlJadahi(J and lntefesting
is welcome. This criterion applies to all contributions, and itzteTeYted la(lies and gentlemetJ
from the Staff side should unaerstand that
writing joy, Campastimes infJoZfJes a type of
literary skill altogether differe71t from tJiat ill·
volved il" say, writi11g a research paper.
-The Editorial Board.

*

Hiqgledy Piggledy
M. Antony Reddy

Outspoken champion
OJ ghastly beards
Said, 'My alter ego
Is Colonel Ojwuku'
But them my heroes are
The local surds.

Edited by P. C. Venkatachelam, Published by Prof S. Sampatb and Printed by C. E. ROBby at the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

