2

CAMPASTIMES
CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEMENTS

A PURSE

is being collected as Hair-Cut
Fund for aur over-worked professors
and beloved lecturers who cannot spare time to
go to Adyar. LiberaI contributions, marked
HAIR-CUT FUND, may be sent to Editor,
Campastimes.

A VACANCYexists in the I.I.T.Library for

a special aCCQllnts clerk to manage the
growing fine-col1ections. A generous com missioo af 10% of the total collections per month
wiU be allowed to the special clerk as an
additional incentive. Application forrns in
quadruplicate (available at the oflice) should
reach the Registrar, I.I.T., on or befare 15th
March. Those who are already in service
are not eligible. Foreign service at the expense
of the Institute \ViU not be alIowed in any case.
-Librarian.
BACHE~OR

with progressive views il~ the
fourth year af B.Tech. course, drawmg a
home allowance of Rs. 150 plus a merit-cummeanS scholarship of Rs. 75 per month, is
willing to enter into correspondence with
parents (Directors, Professors, Assistant Professors preferred) having eligible daughters.
View matrimony. Pass incidental. Sub-sect
no bar. Religion no consideration. Please
write to Box No. 4342, c/o Campasti11les.
CLOSTNG DOWN SALE! The LLT. Cooperative Store is cIosing down under
orders from the High Court. Goods worth
Rs. 20,000 must be cIeared by the 30th of
March. Rush at once. Prices slashed down
by 50%.
-Hon. Secretary.
CYCLISTS DO NOT RIDE ABREAST!
Keep to your Ieft in the corridor of the
Science and Humanities Block. Inserted by
the Madras Police in the interests of road
safety.
EXPORT OR PERISH! English Idioms
prepared by the Dept. of Humanities for
export. 20 Idioms cost Rs. IO (12S. or.$ 2) .
One free Idiom with each order of 100 Idl0ms.
Bulk orders will be considered 00 favourable
terms. Packing and postage free. Write to
Sri Janakiraman, Export Officer, Humanities
Department, I.I.T.P.O., Madras-36. Note:
Foreign orders must be accompanied by 25%
advance.
I.I.T. LIBRARY BOOK-BINDING PROJECT
GLOBAL tenders are invited from reputed
book-binders to reach target of binding
1,00,000 books in the same dull red caver
within 1963. A specimeo bound-book to our
specifications may be had from the Librarian.
The features of the originaI book should not
be distinguishable in any case. Tender forms
may be had from the office during working
hours.
-Librarian.
slim the modern American way ! No
G ETexercises,
no dieting, no nothing. vVri te

{February 15th, 1963

RECENT TALKS
Under the auspices of the Physics Department, Dr. H. P. Broida of the National
Bureau of Standards, Washington, gave two
talks 011 ' Frozen Free Radicals' and 'Flame
Temperature by Molecular Spectra'.
The first talk given in the morning dealt
with the problem of generation, capture and
observation of free radicals. Dr. Broida defined a free radical as a molecule having an
unpaired electron spino Later, he gave
methods, illustrated by a colour film, by
which free radicals are generated either by
bombardment with electrons or just high
temperature and also by photolysls. The
radicals are then frozen in an inert matrix
of solid Argon, at about 4 degrees K obtained
by using liquid helium. Dealing next with
the identification of the radicals by electron
spin resonance and other methods, he went
on to say that the inert matrix h~d very
little effect on the spectra, the line widths
being quite narrow. Among the things that
can be done in the lield, Dr. Broida mentioned the possibility of obtaining rocket
fuels of high lsp (specific impulse) if
means \Vere found to increase the number
of free radicals.
In the second talk delivered in the evening,
Dr. Broida rncntioned that one could define
a temperature oiher than the classical
thermodynamic equilibrium temperature. By
observing the spectra of Plasmas one could
define temperatures corre5ponding to the
equilibrium states of vibration and rotation.
Illustrating his talk with beautiful colour
slides Dr. · Broida explained the effects of
ffiixing gases and the use of supersonic
nozzles with their related shock wave phenomena to examine the short time characteristics of afterglow. The shift in wave
length of the visible radiation was cIearty
shown in colour.
A word about the arrangements. They
were nothing short of disgraceful. As has
been mentioned in earlier issues, the board
in raom No. 105 is no longer black. This
coupled with the fact that thc room was
darkened for the film and the fact that the
lights ncarest thc board would not work,
made the board unfit for llse. Hardly a
word written on it couId be seen. In the
afternoon, the combined efforts of Dr. Ramasastri, Prof. Narayanamurthi and others
proved fruitless against a screen which insisted on emulating Humpty-Dumpty. The
walI was eventually used as the projection
SCreen. Dr. Broida went away with the worst
possible impression of the LLT.
One hopes that for future talks, better
facilities such as a really , black' blackboard
will be provided.

V.s.

L IMITED autographed editions of Discovery

THE INTERNATIONAL
SYMPOSIUM ON PROTEIN STRUCTURE AND
CRYSTALLOGRAPHY

ONE of the elephants of the Gajendra Circle
is missing since last Thursday. It is
reportcd that the elephant \Vas seen rllnning
amuck and smashi ng one of the domed lights
of the pillar. Wi!l finders pIea se phone to the
Security Officer, I.I.T. ?

It was perhaps the first time in tbe history
of this country that so many Nobe1 Prize
winners and F.R.S.s \Vere to be seen together
at thc Intcrnational Symposium on Protein
Structure and Crystallography held under
the auspices of the Physics Department of
Madras University from the 14th to the 18th
of January, 1963.
This was IT: The top brains from aH
Over the \Vorld trying to unlock the secrets
of Nature. To paint a cobereot picture of
the origins of life, starting from fundas!
Thc opening sessions contained lectures by
Sir C. V. Raman and Sir W. L. Bragg. Nobel
Laureate M. H. F. Wilkins then gave an acCount of his work (with Drs . Crick and
Watson) on the structure of DNA; the stuff
th.t ultimately decides what our kids will

in full confidence to A. S. Bawa, Kaveri Hostel,
LI.T.P.O., MadraS-36.

01 Japan by Prof. R. Krishnamurti, and
Madras, Masala Dosai and Me by Dr. Nikolaus
Klein are expected to be ready by February.
Also under preparation: German witlZOllt
Blood, Sweat and Tears by Miss ' Z'. Reprints
of On Curves and Contollrs, the sensational
campusstirring artic1e by Dr. Anantharaman,
are now available. \"'rite for details to Campastimes Publications U nlimited.

TO LET FOR ADVERTISEMENT. Under
special arrangement with our Publisher,
Dr. Klein, we offer space (4 ft. X 4 ft.) for
advertisement display on the top of his blue
van No. CC 2094. For rates apply to Campastimes.

look like and how they are likely to behave.
Later, Prof. G. N . Ramachandran gave details
about the triple helicul structure of the
collagen molecule, the final structure of
which was perfected in ' Madras. A mod el
of this molecule \Vas exhibited along with
other crystal structures worked out by Prof.
Ramaseshan and others.
.
This correspo!\dent had the opportunity
to listen to a Nobel Prize winner. Dr. S.
Ocho. (a Spaniard now domiciled in America)
received the 1959 a\vard for medicine along
with Dr. Arthur Kornberg. Bis lecture was
devoted to the much debated gcnetic code.
Specifically, Dr. Ochoa dealt with the employment of synthetic polynllcleotides to
, crack' the genetic code. 'rt has been shown
that the molecule of D NA (desoxyribonucleic
acid), the substancc in the nucIcus of the
celi that controls the synthesisation of amino
acids and, in the long run, l"rereditary characteristics, is made up of two backbone
strands in the form of a doublc helix composed of alternate sugar and phospate groups.
Attached to each sugar is one of four < bases '
which has a complementary base On the other
strand j oined by hydrogcn bonds. The way
in which these four bases (adenine, gunanine,
thymine and cytosine) are arranged in the
helix, ultimately· determines thc composition
of the amino acido Numerous experiments
seem to indicate that each group of three
bases determines one amino acido There are
only about twenty of these acids, and it
turns out that this kind of triplet code gives
sixty-four possibilities. Dr. Ochoa went on
to give an account of how the use of synthctic polynucleotides helped to reveal the
correspondence between each amino acid and
its ' director', namely the sequence of three
bases .• The fact that there are only twenty
bases out of the possible sixty-fo ur showed
clearly that the 'code was degenerate and
the possibiIity of it being a combination of
triplet-doublet was not ruled out.
J

Altogether, it was an exhilerating experience to listen to a person who had reached
the highest level of scientific distinction.
Dr. Ochoa's lecture, apart from its techical
content, revealed (in part) what it takes to
be a Nobel Prize winner: curiosity, scepti,:,
cism, patience and a profound respect for
Nature.
Other lectures included two by Prof. Ramaseshan on crystallography. From the precious little of the symposium that this correspondent saw, one can say that it served
a very useful purpose in bringing together
the top men in the brand-new field of
genetics, an interdiscipline involving physics,
chemistry, biology and even the abstruse
field of mathematical probability. Finally,
it would be a good idea far this Institllte te
hold a symposium on the latest problcms in
engineering involving people who know what
they are talking about!
V. S.

Irradiated Zinc Oxide
The lecture delivered by Dr. J. C. Kuriacose
on 25th January '963, for the Chemistry
Seminar was on tbe conversion of isopropyl
alcohol to acetone on Irradiated Zil1C Oxide.
The speaker observed that irradiated suspensions of Zinc Oxide containing isopropyl
alcohol form acetone and hydrogen peroxide
in the presence of an adequate concentration
of Oxygen . In aqueous solutions containing
greater than 1M alcohol, the init!al quan~llm
yie1ds could be enhanced by varymg the llght
intensity anel the temperature. The peroxiele
concentration reaches a limiting value lInder
all conditions, but the acetone accumulates
indefinitely. The products obtaineel are the
result of direct surface reactions as well as
reactions of radicals in the liquid phase. It
is postulated that the energy of radiation
absorbed (approximately 80 k.cals) gives lise
to an active form of Oxygen, most probably,
an excited molecular Oxygen, which initiates.
both the surface and liquid phase reactions.

