CAMPASTIMES

februray 15th, 1963]

GUESS WHAT!
(ALL IN J EST)
It \Vas born with a key-chain welded to IT's
middle finger. The keY-,chain is ever ~ctive­
twirling perpetually. ThlDk of IT aDd lt looms
up like an apparition into, Vlew, wlth. a
~ Cheesy' grin, a timely t\VIrI accompanted
by a nod and a blink an~ crown's it al\. by
grunting 'Hl! Gents.!
11~ ltS . mos~ lmpressive voice. (There goes lts gnn aga m).
IT's eyesight is rather poor and hence thc
lenses. Rumaur goes that spectacles .are t.o ~e
replaced by • contacts '. No: only 15 t~lS m
keeping with thc time~J but 15 a150 beheve~.
in this case to be 3n ald to ITs beauty or In
more famiiiar terms, ITs 'killing I capacity:
'Grim aces IT makes
to express distaste,
When in tbis plight
IT's an ape alright.'
so ~a id someone. of this little creature whom
one would fail to notice if one's not looking
for IT. lt has the misfortune of being remarkably .hort and, IT is being thus, packed
as IT \Vere to a high degree of compaction.
This causes IT some embarrassment when IT
takes the floor at a teenage dance in the
capitaI. This feeling, however, is soon over
come when IT is in the arrns of the females
of IT's species gaily exccuting the • Lamb. '
(IT's own version).
IT perforrns the Lamha with an uncanny
grace impossible to describe and, one learns
from reliable sources, that IT was requested
to dernonstrate it before a highly appreciative
audience in Delhi on ApriI Fool's Day.
This little story explains the .uthoritative
manner IT assumes when the subject
• Music' or Dance' is approached.
As coolant is to the cutting tool, so is ice~
cream to this creature. The ice cream is
obtained by fair means or fouI and when IT
docs BUY them, the tender scene enacted
reminds one of Romea .nd Juliet. IT (J ulict)
takes ampIe precautions to sce that IT is oot
being spied upon aod having bolted ~he door
firmly from inside, IT steps out Into thc
balcony in a very romantic mood. The chocbar man below (Romeo) flashes a most
disarming smile and IT is won over. An
exchange of eash for kind takes piace
after
which
satlated IT creeps back
in to shell agaio, taking prec.aution; to . see
that IT is oot discovered wlth IT s pnzed
possession. What happeos thereafter is a
mystery yet to be uoravelled.
IT has been faithful1y serving IT's class as
representative of the Film club for over a year.
ITs services in this respect are appreclated
very much and \Vill be of great value if only
IT does not aet exactly as the Secretary wants
IT to.
'Vhat's on this week?' One ventures to
ask. • I don't know,' IT replies,
ask
Kapur !' • Why are we eharged when there
is no Film show?' 'Don't know, ask Kap ... r!'
IT has in this connection been given good
advice : Don't be a coward,
Don't be a fool,
Speak your \Vili, don't be backward,
For doing your duty is not being a tool.
This \Vas received with the usual grimace
and an Oakay, Oakay Yar ! '
IT's onIy pals are a natabie. Lawrenc~an
(ask Shivery about it) and a notlceable X13n
(Matu Menon the guardian angel). In the
presence of the~e two you ~an se~ IT in l'!''s
true nature but Once outslde thlS protectlve
circle IT's actions aod words change in alarming proportions especialIy in thc presence of
the more seasoned members of the hastel.
With IT acting is a passion or so it seems
for we hear from reliable sources that IT
makes IT a poiot to be preseot at the auditions which of late, we have seen, are held
frequent1y.
When IT first arrived IT \Vas quite dense.
IT would not take hints and though told in
a11 politeness that it \Vas extrrmely fine
wealher fo r a walk IT would fdgn to be
<iisinterested in that vocation.

3

An ardent tennis enthusiast, IT tried IT's
very best to acquire a c0!Uplimentary .seas~n
ticket from one of OUI frtcnds but fatted 1n
the atteropt. 'Better luck next time' we
say 'don't be disheartened '. What follows ?
The twirl, a grimace and an • Oakay Yar ! '
This energetic young gallant is s~metimes
thrown into a fit of lethargy. For IOstanCe,
when ITs pop carne to visit IT during class
hours IT \Vas nowhcre to be found. Mr.
Ekambaram searched even under the carpentry
benches but still had no luck whatsoever.
IT had not come to class that afternoon. We
would not like to go into the details of the
• firing' that followed. Thank God astrongly
worded lave letter from the authontlcs was
not there to add fuel to the fire.
P.S. We bring to your notice . a reccnt
poster (issued during Dassehra hohdays) by
the Sheriff of Bangy containing par~iculars of
a certain H.M.T. W;!tch found missmg. The
description given suits IT perfect1y. Police
dog Nair (IPS 1.062/61) was summoned. It
picked up the trail at a chemist's i~ Bangy
and has arri ved her e in hot pursUit. The
I Hoodlum Precest' has also arrived to extract
a speedy confession.
Those still in doubt, plcase refer to
page 15.

MISSING!
TWO deer with white spots remain un~
claimed in the pound. Will the owners
kindly eontaet the Seeurity Ollieer with the
necessary fines?
copies of Campastimes are being
U NSOLD
auctioned on the ]ast day of every month
at 5 p.m. at Dr. Klein's room and not at Kaveri
Hostel as mcntioned eadiee-Editor, Campas~
times.
WANT to ~arn in your Ieisure time? Take
up a lucrative agency of Campastimes in
unrepresented areas of the warid. For details
write to Editor, Campastimcs. OnIy a few
vacancies left!

WANTED a baby-sitter for a staff Lecturer
having two unruly and rather leaky
babies, on Sundays and other holidays.
Students of I B.Tech. or M.Sc. classes, of
either sex, preferred. Apply at once to Box
No. 4343, c/o Campastimes.
WANTED experienced persons to assist Dr.
Klein in translating a German-English
Dictionary into an English-German Dictionary
under the new Indo-German agreement.
Apply, stating your qualifications, to the
Editor, Campastimes.

w

j

j

j

j

THE ELlXIR OF LlFE
The panacea for human ills and hardships.
The grand elliptical, pentacurial nervous
cordial Nectar. Indicated for : Headache,
toothachc, stomachache, pain in the heart and
pain in the ear. Acts Iaeai irritanti emollient,
corrosive/ non~corrosive appetizer.
When applied over the forehead for headache, layers of skin peel off. The affected or
damaged tissue by WhlCh headache IS caused
is also peeled off.
. .
Toothache is re1ievcd whcn a drop 15 mtro~
duced by boring a holc in the jaw over thc
affccted tooth. As a result of this, thc damaged
tooth drops down. Alternativcly, when alI
these teeth are pullcd out brush the gum with
this. Teeth si>ring up like mushrooms in a
wet area. It should not be applied over the
face Iest 24 hours service of f>aintstaking Iabour
cannot take off the beard.
lt stÌrnulates the heart when beautiful
blossoms are seen. It is a friend in necd
and a cheerful consort when qu estion papers
are given or when the grades are announced or
when the progress report has reached your
house before you could return from there
after the vacatian. (Usua\ly sludents had the
advantage of returning to the hostel when
the grade sheet reached home . Unfortunately, this time it may accompany them as a
guest to their homcs.
It is a useful companion to lecturcrs when
they find something derogatory about themsei ves written on the board, or when they
fumble in a formula .
.
hs effect on the car-drum needs no explanation. It is a boon to the students that they
cannot hear what th e lecturer shouts (may be
boring) and to the lecturers when the students
shout:
, Time up , or so much for to-day '.
It has got the digestive power af even aur
hostei Chappathis which are directly cOffiing
from C.L.R.1. Laboratory with the proper
seal. (I recollect that the Director of C.L.R.1.
had once said that this kind of leather is not
at ali available anywhere in India.) Its
digestive power is. so much that it usually
digests the stomach ltself and leaves no trace.
Wc do not have thc apportunity of consulting
our Doctor to get Codopyrin or Etkosin .
General efficicncy: The particular company
which produces this, has donated 100 gross
of 4 oz bottles to National Defence Fund.
Rumour has it that heavy casualties on the
enemy side are mainly due to this Elixir which
our jawans leave in the outposts that the
Chinese have captured.
On (aking a dose of it, it paves an easy
passage to the cemetery.
Far further details, contact the Ghost of
Kaveri Hostel '.
K. NARAYANAN.

CLASSIF I E D
DIVERTISEMENTS

50 nP. per line
.. UMBRA"

NOTIFICA TION

A S the prices of postage stamps are likely lo

go up soo n, aH members of the I.l.T.
Campus are advised to stock them in sufficieot
quantities far their future use.
-Postmaster, LLT.P.O.

A

FOUND!
T -square remains unc1aimed in tbe
Humanities Department Room far .:the

last two months. WilI oIVners please form .n
arderly queue, at 12.30 in the lunch break
interval, by tbe entrance ?
WARNING
Poetic Licence
has come to my notice that many persons
in the campus of the Institute are indulging in poetry and committing verses without
previous pcrmission from the authorities. A
Poeti e Licence may be had from the office of
Assistant Registrar (Academic) 00 payroent of
Rs. 5 per quarter.
-Registrar.

IT

CIRCULAR
HE cancellat:on of the scheduled trip of
T
the Institute Omnibus stands cancelled.
(Sd.) Asst. Registrar.

j

I

NOTICE
THIS is to inform the generai public that I
shall no longer be held re'ponsible for any
further debts inctlrred by Sri Morarji DasaiU. B. Rau, 8 First Cross Road, I.LT.P.O.,
Madras-3 6.
REWARD Rs. IOO!
WANTED, dead or al i ve, the engineer who
designed the staircase in the D~type
blocks of the Staff quarters.
-A six-footer.
N OTICE
To whomsoever it may Concern
It may be kindly noted by a11 concerncd that
I am the Secretary of the Ll.T. FACULTY
ASSOCIATION and not FAULTY AS!30CIATION as printed in the last issue of
Campastimes-M. C. Gupta.

