CAMPASTIMES

Know Your Future
Prof. Futura, the wor1d~renowned astropalmist, is now camping at Velacheri for the
benefit of the residents of Taramani, Ve1acheri and Guìndy. Stuclents may consult him
on their problems of the head and heart and
members of 5taft' may consult hiro on their
chances of confirmation and promotion.
Three questions Rs. 2.
Reading of your full period in the campus
RS·5·

Life reading Rs. 'S.
"Excellent references Dr. Klein says,
'Prof. Futura astouncled me by predicting
the growing success of Campastimes when
everyone exp.cted us to close down.'
Mr. Bawa says, 'Ever since we began to
consult you on the auspicious dates for Qur
monthly publication, l have received no complaints from OUI esteemed readers.'
Mr. T. S. Ananthu: 'I never used to
believe in astrology and ather allied hocuspocus. But Prof. Futura achieved the impossible by predicting the exact date on which
the Open Air Theatre started to sink rivalling
the relics of ancient Roman amphitheatres.'
Mr. Randhawa, 'It is my confirmed belief
that Prof. Futura is Ùle wonder-man of our
times.'

Prof. Futura's Predictions for 1963

*

The new year wiU see an unexpected
wild scramble for quarters among members
of the staff. Many wiU get married to get a
better type of flat.
Among those who are most likely to get
married in the year are a11 the Assistant
Wardens of the Hosteis including Mr.
8ubramanyam.
Dr. Klein will get a new car in the
middle of the year and write off his present
junk in favour of the Editorial 8tudent Board
of Campartimes.
The foundation-stone of a new Womeo's
Hostel-to be named fittiogly with a masculine river-name (Brahmaputra)-will be laid
by a . visiting West German dignitary. Miss
Ziauddin is most Iikely to be the Warden of
the Hoste!.
In the month or August '963, there may
be a partial boycott by the readers of
Campastimes at the instigation of some rival
publication. , Mr. Bawa wiU meet the crisis
by buying al! the copies himself..
The middle of the new year wiU see 400
fresh entrants of whom 60 are likely to be
women. Our boys are expeeted to turo up
at the classes and workshops with neat
dresses and clean-shaven faces.
Mahesh's Go-Kart wiU develop a crack
lO the mlddle and separate itself into two '
scooters in the month of March.
* On the day of his lavish , house-warming
ceremony following his entry into the campus
Dr. Klein is likely to make a dramatic
announcement. As the stars indicate, he will
probably make some stunning offer to attraet
more students to his German classes. Free
coffee and refreshments to the students who
attend German classes till the end of the
hour; his old van, as is where is, to the best
student of the year in German; or, may be, a
free lifetime subseription to Campastimes.
Food prices and A. S. Bawa are likely to
suffer from further inflation in 1963. Whereas
the former may fluctuate, the latter wilI show
a steady upward trend.
Automatic signals wilI be installed at the
Gajendra Circle to cape with increased traffic
in the new Academic year.
In the 8taff Race far over 40 the first
prize may be knocked olI by Dr. Vairanapillai.
r Campar/imer will come of age with the
Printing Press with Colour Proeess likely to
be gifted by the Bonn Government.
On the whole the year is likely to be
one of moderate prosperity for the IITians.
Ne)"ly married bachelors will be slow to
take to campus life, but oldsters \Vho have

*

*
*

*
*

.*

*

*
*

***

dug themselves in, will be looking aut to
hook in more bachelors. Thc students need
have no cause to fear the Ladies' Club to be
formed in the latter half of the year, unless
they happen to prowl around the staff quarters
after 10.30 at night. Charms and talismans
can be given by Prof. Futura to those who
have any cause far anxiety.
Prof. Futura wiU leave the campus on 15th
March.
'UMBRA.'

(9n Gceit
Conceited people are not liked by anybody
except by themselves. In fact, it is the only
way conceit ean be defined.
But the \VorId at large makes a great mistake in disliking conceited people simply because they are conceited. A close examination of this dislike wiU reveal that the reason
far it is jealousy. That we cannot match the
other's conceit, because we do not have thc
backing for it. Great peoplé are humble,
but al! humble people are not great. Why is
humility a virtue? Sim.ply because it is
cheap. It is thc simplest thing to maintain a
position of one-uprnanship with a humble
person. That is why we like him. li one
is treated as an intellectual equal, one automatically resents il. This is especially so,
if there is considerable age differenee between
thc people coneerned.
Ali one has to do to be branded as a conceited person is to mention a' few successes.
Do people ever consider the fact that a conceited person, more than anybody else, is
after the true nature of things? He is the
only person who accepts facts-all facts, including the one that he is a better mano
Merely because he has a tendency to put the
cards on the table, is no reason for people
to dislike him. If he is good at sport, he
\VilI mention it ' as a fact, to give a trivial
example. Why dislike him for it? lf you
are not sueh , a good ,sport; so what? Your
dislike is a dear indication of your jealousy
and cowardice. You cannot face faets. If
you could-you would aceept the fact, the
truth, the existenee of another's superiority
and you wiU not only try to match his
powers but also get a certain amount of
satisfaetion from the knowledge that you
too, are superior to the common masses in a
particular field. Maybe superior in being
humble!
A conceited person will also realize that he
is unhappy, but he wiU accept it as a fact; a
consequenee of his striving to be superior in
SOme way to the resto He wilI wait patiently
far the day when his conceit" would have paid
off-when he is aceepted as being great. Re
wilI then be called a great rrian and oh! so
humble! But he will be the only person who
knows the truth, who recognises the fact that
he is superior. The onIy person who wiU
again say 'so what ? '
V. SIDDHARTHA.

By

E. S.

BHAGIRATHA

RAo

There, at my door step, stands an
eucalyptus tree)
TalI and handsome and loveable tree,
It stands alone and alone so high,
To distinguish itself above al! the cry
Of plants beneath in mean jealousy
Of the lofty tree.
It gives no fruit; nor flower of use,
It stands indifferent to praise and abuse,
It is God's plenty and does its duty,
To pacify pain of the painful needy
And delight it linds in doing so.
No reward it wants unlike the rest, oh, lo.
It is dumb and gracious, and humble,
honest,
To seek an ideaI far from the resto

l February

15th, 1963

GERMAN
PRONOUNCED
DEUTSCH·

Said a German magnate to his faithful
valet at a large ball: 'Will you please, the
stout gentleman at the farther corner, dressed
in black suit and rimmed spectacles, with tbis
knife ...... . .' At this moment the band
struck up and the valet went away with a
nod, pocketing the jewelled knife ' and a note
given to him. The next day the newspapers
flashed the news of the murde;. The question was, who was the murderer in the real
sense. A safe guess would be that it \Vas the
German language! The magnate, sticking to
the rules of German grammar had reserved
the verb to the very end of his sentence, and
so became inaudible to his valet amidst the
blat)ng of the band. What \Vas an innocent
arder to return a borrowed article turned aut
to be a murder.
Reserving the verb to the very end is but
one of the methods used by the German
language to ward off a foreigner learning the
language. There are several such idiosyncrasies in this language, and far the benefit of
the beginner, a few practical tips are given.
It is reeommended that a course in German
be aecompanied by a little careful drugging.
This is necessary if proficiency in pronunciation is desired. To begin with, a dose of
Sedlitz powder (or any such fuzzy powder) is
imperative to provide ali the wind required
far a y.erman reading. In the initial stages,
substantial care must be taken about the extraction of ' Umlauta '. Umlaut' a' can be
easily extorted by the application of Mandel's
pigment deep down the throat. This, however, has the drawback of curing a sore
throat, indispensable far the characteristic
guttural German notes. Hence it must
always be taken ·with its antidote--cutlets
fried in turpentine. Sleeping pills taken
at judicious intervals serve exeellently far
Umlaut '6', which comes out each time a
yawn is stifled.
Far a successful Umlaut 'il', however,
mechanical means have to be resorted to, tbe
most effective being a severe pineh when the
person is saying an un-umlauted 'u '. Unlike the English language, many of the
German words are stressed on the first
syllable. Any trouble in this regard is
easily set right with a knee-h~mer struck
on any part of the head. With these
techniques, good pronuneiation can be
achieved in record time.
One must, however, give it to the German
language that it is . a very matter-of-fact
language, sometimes to the extent of being
slightly primitive. Far example a telephone
is called FerllSprecher meaning • distant
speaker " and glove is called Handschuh,
signifying a shoe far the hand. One is apt to
wonder how the language manages to express
the finer feelings with such a vocabulary.
The German language has its full share of
the intricacies of a civilised language, and a
beginner has no difficulty in getting lost in
it. One of the first things that confronts hiro
is the gender of nouns. One is at a 10ss
when he is told the word' girI' is a neuter
(das Madehen) or that an inanimate object
like a door is given due piace in the feminine worId. The linguist has an explanation
far these freaks of tbe language, but they are
against commonsense, to say the least.
It would be indeed a pity if the foregoing
account should dissuade anyone from starting
on the German language, far it is a fa5cinating language of a fa5cinating people and
rewarding iii itself.
B. RAMACHANDRA P AI.

'Romantic love should form the motive ·
far a marriage, but it should be understood
that the kind of love which will enable a
marriage to remain happy and to fulfil its
social purpose is not romantic, but i5 something more intimate, affectionate and realistie.'
-RUSSELL.

