CAMPASTIMES

February 15th, 1963]

5

The Border-Conflict with China

ON COURAGE

DR. M. S. V AlRANAPILLAI

What a noble word is courage! In Latin
, Cor' means the heart. What a wanderful
creation is this heart of man, so full of nobility,
so full of just power, so full of sentimental
values ' of love-at the same time rnixed and
mingled with human jealousy, carnal passions,
and brutal strength-why I It's a world in
itself :-Awe-inspiring and at the same time
thrilling! Ves, it is the home that nestles this
inspiring ideaI of courage.
It's very difficult to give full meaning to
this word. Many a man who fought against
cruel templations in daily life, who loved his
neighbour as himself, who ~ept his heart pure
and true-many a man of such sterling
qualities has been accused of cowardice
in war. Was it really fear that made hiro.
run away from the battlefield? Certainly noto
In the sight of God, he is just another man
who cannot control his nerves in an intricate
situation.
In books of history, courage is depicted as
the rescue of beautiful princesses from massive
dragons and terrible giants. It is the spirit
of courage that led so many noble knights on
perilous errancls. But in its many facets,
courage is an enduring word, which wiU go
down in the history of man as bis noblest idealo
There is the daily courage of a diver wha
descends into deep oceans and whose life
depends on the narrow air tube that link5 hiro
ta thc surface air. The most unnoticed act
of courage is that of the traffic policeman
standing in the midst of innumerable carso
Yes! He is in danger of a careless driver,
hurling himself at a reckless speed and
dashing into the precinct5 af the 5afe island
over which he holds supreme sway.
Then there is another farm of courage-the
courage of inquiry that may kill the inquirer.
In a darkly lit room, a man is injecting himself. His belief in the existence of a Cure far
a dreadful malady must ' be vindicated by
risking his own life. It is courage of a noble
order.
The two American soldiers who offer themsei ves and their lives to save the worId from
yellow fever, are amply rewarded when Maj.
Reed says (Gentlemen: I salute you.' In
that salutation is the frank admittance of the
indomitable courage of these two soldiers . .
Thiok of Scott trudging along frozen oceans
of ice with his companions towards the South
pole. Having failed to arrive there fitst, he
returns and in his dinùy lit tent, far from his
house, he still is courageous as he writes bis
diary, leaving behind far posterity the marks
of a genius of an enquirer.
His work is dull. Yet, he keeps on working
relentlessly and tirelessy. Why does he wark
when he does not like the work? It is not
his desire to see his wife and children starve in
poverty. He works for them withaut concern
for himself. Yet, it's courage that smiles to
hide the agony within.
Think of a mother sitting by the bedside
of a child. The child is pale and tbin. She
reads a story book ' for him and when she
comes across a picture, she asks 'Look dear,
is it not funny'? N orre can tell from her
eyes, that her miod is breaking within her.
Having known the worst, she gaes on amusing the child. How noble is courage I Under
its sheltering c1oak, the brave mother faces the
vicissitudes of an agony deep within her
heart. Her love for her child ennobles her in
to a Gaddess of Courage-as it were.
Think of an escaped prisoner standing behind the garden \Vall with his hands ready to
click at the trigger of the gun that he has in
his hand. Re believes he is free to do it.
But is it courage? His face does not show
the resplendent beauty of courage, but it
depicts a feverish and fearlul mask of fanatism. It's not courage but mere stupidity.
If a drunkard \Vere to go on drinking without ever caring for his home and family and if
he is asked to give up drinking, he says in
a devilish grimace, 'I don't care what
happens ' . Can we calI this courage? Is he

A dispassionate view of t~e 'Border .. Con~
fiiet' with China is essentlal for a proper
appreclatlOn of the. i.ssues.. involved. . As
intelligent people, hvmg m a practlcal
warId we must be honest enough to assess
far o~rselves the implications of the Chinese
conflict far the future welfare af aur own
country. Far the time being at least,. the
Chinese confiict is aver although the natlOnal
emergcncy continues to exist throughou~ the
Indian political warId. Peace has eXlsted
between India and China for aver twa thousand years and the reeent confiict ~as been,
indeed, a strange interlude. We dld not go
to war with China as the whole world .knows;
nor have we ever harboured, openly or seeretly, any territorial designs on ~hinese territory.
Therefore the Chinese actlOn on our two
border ar~as earne as a great surprise and a
greater shock. Our continued indifference to
the no man'o land on the Himalayas has cast
us heavily. The Chinese took adva!'tage of
aur position and planned \Vell ,to elatffi what
was not theirs. We woke up to find that
we had taken many things for granted.
People, usually, have short memories. Our
record has been crystal elear. The Chinese
aggression struck us like a thunderbolt as
aur government and peaple had never expected such an unfriendly a.ct on the part of
China. "Ve have been conslstently gOing out
of our way to befriend Red China in and
out of season, even at the cost of aur own
popularity among certain friendly cauntries.
That we incurred the displeasure of a
nation like the D.S.A. soIely on account of
our stand regarding China cannot be gainsaid.
We were the first to recognise the communist governrnent in Red China. After the
Kuomintang group was driven out. of the
Chinese mainland, we have been conslstently
showing a cold shoulder to the Formosan
régime under Chiang-Kai-Shek, partIy to
please the present set-up in China, forgetting that Chiang was a strong. advocate
of our independence. We champloned the
cause of Red China on alI conceivable occasions for her entry into the D.N.O. and many
of its specialised agencies. We shocked the
civilized worId by accepting the conquest of
Tibet by China as a logical and inevitable
evento No occasion was missed to ridicule
the representatives of the former. Chinese
régime in the worid forum. We pOInted out
to Bandung Conference as an indicati .m and
example of Asian solidarity in generaI and
Indo-China friendship in particular. We
preached and paraded 0ll:r ( Pancha .Shee~a '
doctrine as an epoch-maklng theory In ASlan
and international relationship. It must be
pointed that we did not take seriousIy the
hundred and one border incidents which had
become rather chronic on our northern
frontiers by the aggressive acts of China..
The Chinese construction of the long roads
in dose proximity to our North-Western
borders and the occupation of thousands of
square miles of Indian territory in the Himalayan regio n did not make much of an impression on us or oul' government. We
talked more and left many things undone
even under provocation. D nder the leadership o f oul' Prime Minister and former
Defence Minister, we were waxing loud in
voice and dance our binding fraternity with
the Chinese, the c10seness of our culture,
and the solidarity of the Asian group of
nations.
When, in October last, we were confronted
by the Chinese large-scale onslaught, our
government and people were taken aback.
But our enthusiasm to meet the Chinese
aggression was spontaneous. AH of us were of
ane opinion that China, after all, betrayed her
own true colours, aod only simple and childlike credulity on aur part prevented us from
understanding the venomous Chinese dragon.
Meanwhile, our Prime Minister and Defence
Minister assured the nation that the Chinese
menace wouId be beaten back and that
India was fully pr~pared to meet the unproI

2

voked aggressian and drive back the enemy
bevond thc Macmahon Line and line of
actuai cont;ol as on September 8, 1962. The
natioo, with one mind and one voice, supported
thc government stand and rallied round the
Prime Minister and his policies. Political
parties, with the possible exception of a few
in the Communist and Swatantra ranks, vied
with each other in their support of the wareffort. The nation, for the first time since
independence spoke with a united voice.
North and South, East and West, high and
low, yauth and age, men and women, capitaI
and labour, and mlers and the mled rose as
one man to withstand the Chinese invasion.
India went through the birth-pangs of a new
sense of unity and solidarity unknown before
in her long and chequered history. National
integration was no longer an ideaI to aspire
for but a reality to spring forward to a new
day and a new goal in our life and history.
India was now one grand spectacle of
people in every walk of life whose first and
sole purpose was to drive out the invaders
and. teach them a lesson which they will
never forget. Noblest expressions of love
and service for our motherland carne from
the youth of the nation. They freely offered
themselves for national service and enlisted
themselves in different branches of the
Defence Force. Our hospitais and doctors
were not able to cope up with the blooddonations that aur youths made throughout
the length and breadth of the country.
College and university otudents looked forward to immediately enlisting themselves in
the army to lend their whole-hearted support to protect the nation. Our girls in
schooIs and colleges donated their cash and
ornaments to swell the Defence Fund. Our
women voluntarily parted with the gold
ornaments to tide over the national crisis.
Teachers, government servants, mlmsters
and even High Court judges donated part or
whole of their salaries. Newspapers reported
that ministers and politicians were weighed
against currency notes, precious metals and
even fish during the process of the war-effort.
India witnessed an unprecedented volume of
heroic speeches being aelivered from press
and platform in every part of the country.
Dramas were enacted; musical and dance
performances were announced ; concerts were
arranged; aod ald movies were put on the
screen in aid of the Defence Fund. Some
movie stars participated in tht: production of
short fi]ms to accelerate the war effort and
achieved momentary gIory in light and shade.
Others gave thousands of their welI or illearned money to pass through the limelight
for at least a day. The season was a golden
opportunity for sensational press to come out
with their never-ending heroic editorials. In
the midst ' of the national emergency, marches
and processions bccame common. House to
house collections \Vere undertaken. Public
meetings put to sharne the Bug Clubs in the
V.S.A. and the Hyde Park in Britain in the
production of professional orators. Some
Communist leaders were rounded up. In the
midst of all these and more, the Government
of India issued the drastie . Defence of India
Rules.
The other side of the picture is sad and
heart-rending. The China Border-Conftict
was a godsend to tens of thousands of proliteers to whom nothing else mattered ather
than profit. They would mortgage the nation
and use the heroic youth of the country as
cannon-fodder for the sake of their material
and temporary gain. Prices of essential
commodities begé,tll to soar high. Even in the
pre-war period, mounting prices of the utter
necessities of life were a stock criticism of the
government and its admillistration. The
Chinese Conflict clearly revealed how difficult
it is even for an efficient government to bring
under controi (black-marketeers' and profiteers. They were repeatedly (advised' by
(Continlled on page 18)

By

SHANKAR

(Cominued O" page '5)

