6

[February 15th, 1961

CAMPASTIMES

The DeterrrJined One
By S. BUKHT

That frail .nd delicate looking girI that you
are watching waiting at thc tram-stand, is no
atber than Farida. There are several ather
children standing there, too, but I am surc
you can at once see thc difference between
her and those ather children. Far one thing,
there is a great deai of determination in her
that is missing in the other children. Look
closer and you wiU observe the sad eh'Pression
in her eyes, the expression common to those
into whom fate forces itself.
Watch her then as she looks forward hoping
to see thc tram come. Her face remains
expressionless. It's office hour now and the
tram is rather crowded. As it rumbles to a
stop beCore her, thc other children rush to it
with a joyous shout and force themselves in.
But watch our little Farida. She stands aloof
waiting for the rush to subside. She is about
to get OD when thc faint tinkle is heard and
the tram moves forward with a jerk. Our
Farida stili remai ns. The following tram is,
however, less crowded and on this she manages
to board with ease.
Let us follow her here, too. Slowly and
steadily she walks to the front of the vehicle
and quietly sits down at the ladies' seat, places
her bag between her legs, puts her delicate
elbows just a little out of the window and
stares into the space beyond. A thought
strikes her and she opens her little pink purse
made aut of heads, and takes out a ten naya
paisa bit. 'When the collector comes without
even bothering to look in his direction she
hands hiro the coin. A second or two later,
her pink palms are stretched out again to
receive the change and the ticket. These, too,
she places in her bag, and then looks out
again.
Aren't yOll wondering what she may be
thinking? I am afraid I cannot tell you her
thoughts because I am not sure of them my~
self. Throughout the journey she is rigido
Her face is blank. Whatever thought. she
may be thinking or whatever emotions she
may be undergoing, she is certa.inly taking
pains to hide tbem alI. Near her destination
.he picks up her bag gently and moves towards
the exit.
'Hey, Farida', hail her friend. at the
gate.
, Hey,' she replies .oftly.
'Prepared your lessons l' asks anolher of
her friends.
{ You don't have to ask Farida that,' echoes
a friend from behind her.
, Hello, Je;n,' says Farida turniog back and
greeting her with • look which mean. ' please
Jean, don't say that again '.
She does not pause at the gate waiting for
thc :five~minute beli to ring, but wa1ks to her
classroom with her book-bag in the left hand.
In the çlassroom, she goes to her allotted desk,
opens her book required for tbe first period
.nd tben wa\ks out again and waits before the
classroom.
The class has already begun. Notice how
intently she watches her teacher, eager to
catch every word that escapes her mouth,
notice also with what readiness she takes
down al! that the teacher dictates to the class.
When a c1ass~work is given to her, she. starts
working at it right away and having fini.hed
she waits patient1y for the teacher to come
around and correct her work. . The other
children who have not yet finished, ask her
the answers to some questions. She tells
them, but rather reluctantly, not because she is
jealous of the other girls also getting ali right,
but because she believes in individuaI working.
The three forty-five minute periods slowly pass
away andsoon the bel! ringa for the tiffin break.
Together with her friends they go out to
the play-ground and dig into their bags for
the tiffin they have brought with them. Farida
slowly opens the packet containing the egg
and cheese sandwiches and slowly begins
eating. Watch eagerly the little group around
her talk. No manners are observed here and

(Continued on page 7)

CIVIL DEFENCE PROGRAMME

Civil Defence Hqs.
J h u j h a g i r i

January 1963

Confidential
;:::;::;:::;:::;:::=;:::====:z;
Ref.: CP/WRDN/A/I/39/63

Dear Sir/Madam,
Sub.: Ci!!l

Defenc~ogramne

Under the provision of Ci viI Del."ence
Programme, we are entering into extenslve planning to organize both civilian and industriaI
corps to the purpose of fire fighting in tbe event
of air r-aids taking pIace.
As a clvilian whose loyalty is unquestionable, we believe that we may count on you
as ~ patriot far 100 per cento cooperation. We
have tberefore taken the liberty of appointlng
you A t r Ha id Warden fo r your ward.
Enclosed is the list of equipment
wh1cb wlll be necessary for eacb warden as set
out in Defence Regulatlons (C;15(p).P 18), and
we suggest alI possible haste be exerclsed in
mall:lng preparations for this emergency.
In anticipatlon of y<:>ur 8upport of
this scheme, we extend our thanks and the Commlttee wish to express thelr appr~ciatlon for
your part in the enterprise wbich we feel ls 50
vital for tbe comruunity.

Yours fa i th fully,

p.p.Civil Defence Comm1ttee

----

En cl.: C o de CDE/Go 01 / ss Il( . 142

