february 15th, 1963

l

7

CAMPASTIMES
Delermined One-( Continued)

Confidential
====:::==-===
Code

CDE/Goo1/SS/K.14~

LIST OF WARDEN I S EQUIPMENT
1~

~

4)

5)
6)

7)
8)"
.

9)

10)

11)
12)
13)
14)
15)
16)

One respirator;
One axe (to be carried in the belt);
One stirrup pump (to be carried over right
shoulder)·
One rake ~to be carried over left sbou~der);
One extension ladder (to be carri ed under
left arm);
.
One long-handled s~ovel (to be carried under right arm);
One scoop (to be carried in left band);
One whistle (to be carried in mouth, fixed
witb lanyard);
Two wet blankets (to be carried round the
neck) ;
One belt (to be worn round tbe waist, witb
ten hooks attached for the purpose of carrying six bags of sand and four buckets of
water);
One flashlight (to be carried round the neck
on top of blankets)'
One box of. matches ~for li6hting incendiary
bombs which fai 1 to ignite);
One tin helmet (witb turned-up brim to carry
extra water for drinking purposes only);
Extra sand (to be carri ed in alI avaiIable
pockets) ;
One anchor (to be dropped in the event of a
warden running away);
One broom (fixed to the warden's back for
sweeping up when it i6 alI over).

the girls talk aH at once and sometimes even
with their mouth full. Suddenly al! is quieto
Somehow in that very short instant no ane
speaks or everyone is waiting for the ather to
speak. It is at this moment that yOll \VilI
notice a very faint sroile steal across Farida's
lips. lt's a strange smile but you undoubtedly
know how to interpret it.
No, no, don't be distracted but watch careful!y how eagerly she joins in the eonversation.
Theyare discussing their holidays. But somehow or ather the conversation undoubtedly
drifts back to the question of parents.
( Oh, my parents afe so very kind that they
don' t mind if I don't study al all during the
holidays,' exclaims ane girlo
I Yea,' says another, ' My pop doesn't mind
but my Muro insists that I .do at least some
studies during thc hols ).
Notice how at the mention of the word
father Farida stiffens. The jaw bones, if you
are observant enough, yoo will see, stiffen a
little and she looks away from the group as
though eompletely disinterestod.
, And what about Farida, you must be mug..
ging during the holidays'.
The question brings her baek to the group,
and yoo can see strange light of new deteemination in her eyes as she replies, , Oh, me.
Well my pa .. . parents 1et me do as I please,'
replics Farida and looks around to 8ee whether anyone had bothered to notiee her
mistake. They had not.'
I forgol to tell you Farida's father had
died two years ago but she, for reasons known
only to her, didn't want to te1l her c1assmates
about the death and let them presume lhat
her father \Vas stili alive. The bel! Fings and
it is time for class:
Our objeet of interest like most of the girls
there finds the afternoon classes rather tiring.
But you can see that she is making an attempt
to keep her mind alert. The final bell leaves
her thoroughly tired and wearily she paeks up
to go home.
No salutation greets her when she is back
hOfl1.e. Ber presence is taken for granted.
Part of the evening she is making a garland oE
beads and tbe rest she sits in a little corner
where her desk is and begins her work.
SeveraI times she is called by her mother to
feteh sornething or the other. She does ali
this witbout saying a word and with tbe same
determination that you had notieed when ohe
had been waiting for the tram.
The mother and daughter relationship is
rather queer in this little fami\y. Anyway,
having completed her chores she goes back to
her desk and before commencing ber work,
again casts a Ionging glance at the picture of
her father whieh is plaeed on the shelf above
her. Then she is absorbed in her studies.
Dinner, too, is a silent affair. She eats
what is placed before her, and mother and
daughter exchange a few words, more for the
sake of formaIity and habit than for anything
else. Dinner is aver and she helps her
mother with the washing.
Bed-time does not follo\V long after. When
ali seems to have been complete, mother and
daughter eaeh go to their respeetive beds which
lie side by side. The light is switehed off
and all is dark. Mter a few moments of rustling of bedsheets, silenee reigns. The breathing is regular, at least Farida's is. Rer
mother, however, seems restless. A very soft
scratching sound is heard somewhere and the
mother raises hereself and goes to tbe adjacent
room whieh has a door leading to the baek
of the house.
You 3re alone now with Farida. Look at
the relaxed figure on the bed. Then suddenIy
something seerns to disturb her and stili half
asleep she turns over once or twice and then her
eyes gradual!y open. She stares at the opposite wall and gradual!y her eyes travel to her
mother's vacant bed. In a flash the face is
fi.lled with hate and disgust and she whispers,
'Oh God, not again. I will get out of this
rut as sure as there is a heaven,' she says.
A groan escapes her lips and she turns to tbe
other side and forces herself to sleep.

