8

[February 15th, 1963

CAMPASTIMES

LIGHTER SIDE OF LECTURERS'

IlT GOBBLLEDEGOOK

RESIDENCE

S. SRlKANT

I.

'GUESS WHO'
Many families in Adyar and Mylapore were
faund moving out of their homes in midDecember, 1962, and a caravan of lorries
laden with household articles and bullock
drawn trucks loaded with farnily belongings
was wending its way along the Guindy-Adyar
Road practically everyday during those two
wceks. This \Vas reminiscent of thc memor3ble march of thc early AmeTican settlers in
search of new homes and hearths in thc wild
west. This \Vas a150 a westward march into thc
wilderness not of the American adventurcrs
but of I.I.T. piçmeers. It \Vas thc glorious
sight of the I.I.T. Faculty members moving
into their new dwellings in thc sylvan surroundings of thc emerging campus of thc
Indian Institute of Technology.
l \Vas looking forward to this day for more
reaSOnS than olle; not without justification I
taid my parents that it would take at least six
months to a year for things to get normalised
herc, and it \Vas better that I moved in first
with my newly wedded wife and undergo the
ordeal of the pioneering experiencc and they
moved in a year later into a well-settled campus. In a way I am deeply. thankful lO our
Superintendmg Engmeer for, m hIS cIrcular letter he had stated that my house would be declared fit for occupation on the 1St of December, '962, and when I brought my parents on
the 15th of the same month to my house and
nothing \Vas ready, they \Vere convmced of
the unenviable ordeal we are in far. Of
cOUl'se I had a number of otber selling points
such a; bus facilities, supermarkets, schooling
far my sisters, and medicaI aid ; thanks to the
rate of progress in these directions in ~ur
campus, I had no difficulty in discourag~ng
them and starting complacenùy dreammg
about the honeymoon we were going to enjoy
here. These inadequacies did not deter uS
far wC had our love to compensate far everything else.
The month of December in the Gregorian
calendar coincides with the month of Markazhi in our Tamil calendar, and Markazhi is
not supposed to be an auspicious month for
moving into a new dwelling. Though I am
not a Christian, I felt that the X'mas night
should be auspicious enough for this purpose
even far a Hindu, for after all, the san of
God, could not have chosen this night to be
born in this world otherwise. I congratulated
myself on finding a very good excuse a~d
persuaded my Iittle superstitious but otherwl~e
enthusiastic wife to Iaunch on our new expedltion.
As scheduled, our bullock-drawn wagon
arr~ved at the Gateway to I.I.T. at 8 p.m.,
and aIlowing the wagon to move along the
Delhi Avenue we walked behind it. There
was no one on the road at that hour and thc
weather was especially delightful far people
Iike us to ta1k and walk behind the cart unobserved by any prying eyes. The avenue
was brightly lit by fluorescent lamps \Vh.ch
stretching as they did to the middle of the
road reminded me of an army's welcome with
drawn swords to their newly-married commander. A group of deer grazing near the
roadside looked up and gave us smiles of recognition and gracefully crossed the road
oblivious of our presence. A few monkeys
shifted from one branch to another in search
of better resting places for the night, and the
birds were chirping softly in their nests or
branches of trees on the sidcs; the frog
orchestra was in its full swing with its
deIightfully monotonous rhythm, and thc ov~r­
hanging expectation of a friendIy cobra wlth
its hooded magnificance passing by lent a
romantic charm to the eerie atmosphcre.
My \Vife, who was walking by my side silently observing alI thesc, cooed mellifluousl y into
my carso
'Dear, when you were telling )'our parents
of the defects and drawbacks of I.I.T. campus life, I knew it was to dissuade thero from
coming in with us to stay; but you know,

you sounded so true and sincere that I royself had a vague fear whether you were not
telling the truth. Now all my fears are
gone.'
'What do you mean by saying "alI your
fears are gone"? You will see; evcrything I
said about this place is true.'
'Don't tease me! It is gorgeous around
here. Oh, I love to run along this road and
cbase the deer: See those dazzling cyes in
the darkness yonder. Aren't they frighteningly fascinating ?'
'You are presuming those cyes to be those
of decr, don't you, dearest? But yonder
eyes belong to dogs. Stray dogs or street
dogs whatever you may choosc to cal1 tbern.'
'Dogs? You are funny! }-Iow on carth
couId you have stray dogs bere ?'
'Quite simple. Last week, I hear, there
was a conference of all the stray dogs in
Adyar, and it was unanimously decided by
voice vote that to reduce the problem of overcrowding fifty per cent of them should
migrate into this new colony. Many were
reluctant to move in for lack of food and
other facilities, but the steering committee
seemed to have stated quite pertinently, that
pioneerir:g efforts always entailed some discomforts but their irìitial privations would be
more than compensated by increasing dividends as days and weeks go by. So theyare
here in good strength to weIcome us.'
'You Imow, you have a way of explaining
things. I love you, dear, for that. Believe
me or not, I am going to be happy, very happy, if I am not already l'
'You mean with all these obnoxious Creatures around you ?'
'No, dear, with you around me.'

'A cheque for Rs. 100 is enclosed herewith.'
, I await far an early repIy.'
'A copy or the Ministry's letter is
appended belo...'
, His letter referred to above is O1l1lexed
/lereto .'
'An application from Shri ABC is
attached herewith.'

- These are some of the many incorrect sentences that are current in Government, semiGovernment as welI as priv.ate commerciaI
correspondence,I.I.T. not excluded. Superficially Iooked at, the errors afe not apparent
prima facie; but, it is only when we go deep
into the construction of sentences, we realize
the discrepancies that have unconsciously or
ignorantly crept in. Not that they are
, grammatically incorrect, Or philologically inaccurate. But the expressions uscd ' are
redundant and pleonastic. You wilI appreciate that it is enough if we say 'I heard '
rather than ' I heard with my ears " 'I have
seen ' rather than ' I have seen 'loith my eyes',
, It is a fact' rather than ' It is areai fact "
and ' It is a lie ' rather than ' It is a false lie'.
V\'hen you understand that a fact is always
real, that a tie is always false and that you
cannot hear or see through organs other than
ears and eyes, you wiII be ashamed of the
pleonasms you have unconsciously employed.
Similar are the expressions 'enclosed here·
with " 'await for' 'appended below', 'annexed hereto " and 'attached herewith'. The
term ' enclose ' is one word for the two words
(send herewith', t await " far t wait for '.
, Append' means annex, 'annex' rncans
atta ch, and 'attach' means fasten, and the
expressions foIlowing them are copious and
are therefore superfluous.
II. ' The matter may be placed bcfore the
Board at tlteir next meeting' - This is another
common error committed at the I. I. T. ollice.
At 8.30 we sighted our block C I '2 LecturThe rules of grammar say, when a pronoun
ers' Quarters, and I was pleasantly surprised
stands far a collective noun, it must be in the
to find two or three colleagues of mine lined
singular number and ncuter gender, if the
up with their wives and children to welcome
collective noun is vicwed as a whole (vide
uso My wife was particularly pleased to see
English Grammar by Wren and Martin) i
these friendly folks, but I failed to understand
as:their gloomy looks. While we had come here
I. The army had lo suffer terrible
\Vith a lot of hopes, they appeared to me. like
privations in its march.
prisoners in the Siberia n desert camp wel2. Tbe jury gave its verdict.
coming newcomers. Their words of we1co~e
But, when the collective noun conveys the
seemed to indicate that they were cynically
idea of separate individuais comprising the
inclined to believe that one more couple to
whole, the pronoun standing for it must be of
share the campus life would somehow reduce
the plural number (the auxiliary verb also
their share of burden or botheration. With
correspondingly ~ecomes plural) ; as :
their help, we fixed a few bulbs in OUT house
The jury were divided in tlteir opinions.
and unloaded our pots and pans from tbe
Inasmuch as the term 'Board' is viewed
wagon. Thanking these good people and
as a whole, the singular pronoun 'it' should
seeing them off we closed the door and Iooked
be used. Thus the sentence should read :
around uso
, The matter may be placed before (he
'Well, dear, we are at last in our new
Board at its next meeting.'
house.'
III. Change of tense in the Same sentence
'Show me round th~ house.·
is prohibited under the rules of grammar-it
In the course of the conducted tour wc
is a violation of syntax. Thus tbe following
carne into one of our bedrooms. My \Vife
sentences are incorrect:
was trernendously impressed by the glass doors
, It was already informed that the leave
provided far ali windows. I wanted to set her
applied for i, refused. It-was also stated that
thinking right.
that if you do not present yourself at the office
'How many windows of other houses can
on . .... . disciplinary action would be taken
you see from here
against you.'
In a11 excitement sbe counted : 'One,
The italicised words should rcad in the
t\Vo, ... five .. . . ten, .. . fifteen ..... '
past tense as was aRd did not respectively,
'Eighteen ! how nice it is! When you into make the sentences grammatically accurate.
troduce me to the wives of your friends
This elementary Tule i~ overlooked by many
araund here I can wave to them from my
of the correspondents here.
window. In course of time, believc me, I
IV. 'Note for Chairman ': This is anam going to spend my spare timc in cvolving
other howler committed at the I.I.T. The
a code of signs and gestures which can help
prepositien lo is more aCCurate. Either the
us express ourselves more eloquently than
sentence should read: c Note to Chairman'
words.'
or' Notefor Chairman's approvai '.
'That is a wonderful idea, dear! But there
Incorrect prepositions are also commonIy
is another angle to view the thing. \i\'hile
used here and the following sentences wiU
you can see through 18 windows, people can
serve as exampl~s:
see you through these eighteen windows.'
, You are selected for the post of Steno, What is wrong with it ? '
grapher.'
'Glass doors; at night with lights on,
, He has reported for duty.'
dear.'
The preposition to in thc above sentences
, Oh, uooo, now I understand why you were
would give the meaning intended.

*

*

*

r

(Colltinued

011

page 18)

(Colltillued on page rr)

