February 15th, 1963 J

_CAMPASTIME$

THE MANTLE OF MANKAD
R.

NATARAJAN

Cricket owes much to its lefthandersbatsmen, bowlers and all-rounders-for, it is
they, who supply what, normally, should be
a cheerless four or five day masterpiece of
monotony, thase iridescent sparks of elegance
and effect, which draw milling crowds as if
with a magical magnet. A Martin Donndly
scattcring his foes 00 the ficld with ' deep
disdain', a Tony Lock playing the python by
his victims, hypnotising them into hopeless
submission or a Bert Sutcliffe houncing
boundaries of! his brilliant bat are a11 preciolisIy preserved in the amber of cricket
memory. \VoolIey, or Warren Bardsley,
Marris or Mankad, Donnelly or Davidson,
Verity or Valentine, has, each on his dayand
in his w.\y, been a crowning glory to this
eternaI sport.
While the saga of the world's cricketing
lefthanders has been stirring, India's has been
no Iess impressive. Mankad, the Magnificent,
set the Indian fashion in Ieft arm spin bowIing,
as Dior did the Parisian, sartoriaUy. He was,
besides, a batsman of world dass-in fine, a
classica l all-rounder of tbe Miller mould.
There was Ram Singh, that Titan of the
South, who held batsmcf!. captive with his
• wanton wiles' and meted out Corporal
punisbment to bowlers, who did not care to
conform to canons of length or direction.
Then carne Nadkarni, who is no\V indispensa, ble to any Indian Test side, with his consistent
batting, nagging bowling and tidy dose-in
/ielding. But, if there is to-day, any Indian
Cricketer, on whose shoulders the mande of
the great Mankad has fallen al).d is, verily,
the toast of Indian cricket-it is Abdul Azeez
Salim, better known as Salim Durrani.

THE WAYS AND THE

MEN
I
It was not exactly yesterday-but then nor
Was it today-may be something Iike thirty
years back; he had been young, very yaung
indeed, eighteen, to be precise. Thirty years,
, a long time, indeed, very long, as a matter
of fact', he thought, • but then what is it
when you can span it sitting in a chair ' . It
just didn't seem to be anything. How we
can traverse the barrier caUed Time backwards
in our retrospective moocls is not difficult to
imagine. That little understood organ in the
queer set up calI ed the 'human body', our
mind, knows no barriers, has no limits, can
soar into the past and future high above
ourselves-like an epiphyte wÌlich may sometim"!s grow to be even taner than the tree
it stands ono
And so it was with hiffi now. At eighteen,
he haci come to do engineering, not very
willingly though, but come he had.
Factors more important than his Qwn wishes
had been involved, and he had yielded, \Vithout s.truggle whicb he knew would have been
futile, and, moreover, in some inner recesses
of his mind he had known that this was the
right thing to do. What with the then existing social system, unemployment prevailing
ali over the country, he stood a very feeble
chance and he knew it. Ves, engineering was
the best thing to do.
He would get a good job and thus would be
able lO support his parent. well and; may be,
make them happy at least in the last few years
of their lives.
With these ideas-and a sensible mind and,
lastly, without any natural or cultivated quali- .
ties for music, his father had had little
difficuly in persuading him. His words stilI
rang in his cars, 'SOll, you know, you have
always been like this, always saying that you
couIdn't do such or such a thing and then
doing it. Didn't you tell me two years ago
tbat it was not possible for you to do science,
that you would never get along, but you did
and very well, indeed, and that. You are a

3

Salim set the Indian cricket /ields aglow
during the 1961-62 season, with bis thrilling
performances with both bat and ball against
Ted Dexter and his ' hencbmen '. His soaring
sixes in the Bombay Test, sent up India's
hopes of winning the T est Series against
England. With his black magic bag of eleven
wickets, he, literally, won the Madras Test off
his left armo He followed his splendid showing
against England with epochal performances
against the West Indies during the recent
[ndian tour of the Carribbean. Salim set
their tropical palms a flutter both with his
batting ànd bowling. His century against the
rampaging all-conquering West Indians, in
the face of dire adversity, showed character
and. grit while eveo batsmen of the sterling
stamp of Sobers and Solomon had 00 adequate
answer to his lethal leather. If India woo
the Test Series against the M.C.C. and had
• one crowded hour of glorious life' or two
against the ,"Vest Indiaos, it was deservedly
due to Durrani. It has been said of Epaminondas that he • carried Thebes 00 the wings
of his genius '. Similar has been Salim's rale
by lodian cricket.
Born in 1935 00 August 15-a day even,
otherwise, auspicious in our nationa1 annalsAbdul Azeez Salim made his entry into first
c1ass cricket even as a school boy and had
the enviable ,distinction of scoring a century
00 his maiden appearance in the Ranj~ Trophy
when he compiled 108 runs far Gujerat
against Saurashtra in 1954. Later, he transferred his allegìance to Rajasthan, where he
was employed on the personal staff of ~he
Maharaja of Mewar, a grcat p;ttron of cricket.
Thereafter, his star rose with that of Rajasthan
genius and I want you to know it. You go
and do your engineering and it shall be quite
simple.' He knew, of course, that he was no
genius, and what his father had said wasn't
much different from what any persuading
father would say to a reluctant san.
. 'But, father, music stirs me so, I find
everything in me vibrating with it,' was
about ali that he had managed to say.
, But what do you have to show far it-you
can't sing, you can't play, and to say the
least, you are about as u~musical a m~n as
ever there was one.' Re had haif yielded,
, and, san, my dear boy, it is the only ambition of my life. I always wanted to be an
engineer but never got be one. Now it is
far you to give me at least the satisfaction of
having been tbc father of one:
'
That had settled it. How \Ve lave to fulfil
our unachieved ambitions--our unattained
goals-at least partly by'making someone else
do the things we could noto
That of course, was ~he real reason his
father had, and he knew it.
And then some years later an Engineer he
did become to tbe entire satisfaction of his
father.
II
As the years Iolled by, he achieved success-but never the internaI satisfaction of
happiness. The music stili hauled him in a
mysterious sort of way which even he didn't
understand. But still it had persisted, the
feeling that he ought to have learnt it, the
only thing he loved reaI1y. But then he never
had it in hiro to cause unhappiness and
misery to his perents.

III
In the COllIse of time he got married and
had a sono Be knew what he was going to
do with it exactly. He would teach him
musie.
And that is what he did. By the age of
tcn, the child had become a child-prodigy
and by fifteen he was famous. Re was very
proud of his son and was exceedingly attached
to him.
He prided hirnself on the fact of having
almost created a Great Musician. I After

9
in the Ranji Trophy. On his /irst appearance
far them, he playe~ a scintillating innings of
88 runs against Madhya Bharat at Indore.
But Salim's vintagc performance was reserved
far the 1960-61 season when he nearly
, abducted' the Rallji Trophy for Rajasthan.
When that 'Rajput' side were dismissed for
a dismal score of 140 runs in the first innings,
Durrani put new life into his team by sending
Umrigar, Apte and Hardikar pavilion bound
at a paltry personal cost of 28 runs. In spite
of catches galore missed olI his bowling, Salim
captured 8 wickcts f6r 99 runs-a mcmorable
effort. In the 5 national championship matches
he played during 1960-61. Durrani captured
35 wickets far 383 Iuns, which the cricket
Almanac of the year rightly described as 'the
finest bowIing perfo rmance ever given by a
Rajasthan pla)"er in Ihe Ranji Trophy
Championship '. This is . saying something
\Vhen we consider that the Rajasthan side
boasted of Vinoo Mankad and Subash .Gupte
in their ranks.
In International cricket, this gifted lefthander has played against New Zealand, West
Indies and Australia, :with a pudding performance of 80 against tbe West Indies atJabaIpur
during the 1958-59 season. He made his
Test debut on New Year's Day in 1960 against
the Australians with a quick-silver innings of
18 runs, small in run value but impressive in
his aggressive approach in batting. His historic
achievements against England and the West
Indies are but recent 11istory and do not
reqwre reiteration.
Hardly 28, DUlTani has many years of
cricket before him. His best is yet to burst.
into blossom. But even as it is, Salim has
joined the brilliant band of immortals of Indian
cricket. If the Moghul Salim gave, in bis
day, Indian art a fascinating fillip, it has been
left lo this cricketing Salim to rai.e the tone of
contemporary Indian cricket.
The mande of Mankad could not have fallen
on broader or worthier shoulders.
aH it was through my efforts that he is today
what he is.'
He used to present hiro with pride, jlO~
only because he was his son, not even becausC}
he was a great name, but because it was he, at
least, partly who had made him what he was.
I An exact
embodiment of my unacrueved
ambitions, my unattained goals, my 10st
ideals, . he is . wh.t I could not be and more.'
IV
About a month ago he got a letter from bis
san.
My dear Father,
You wilI be surprised and may be evcn
shocked on reading this. Coming straight
to the point, I want to tell you that I
have given u'p music. I am sorry if it hurts
you, but I am afraid that now it shall
have to be. I am even more than sorry.
I am hurt myself for causing you dismay. I know, of course, a11 that yoa
did to make me what I was unti! a few
days back.
Be it as it may, I would never have
been happy if I had cariied ono I
had of course, always known that something in me was amiss. But now I
know what it is. I always had wanted
to be what you are: an engineer. Since
that is weIl nigh impossible, I have decidcd to becoroe a crane operator. It is, of
course, not what I \Vant to be, but, well,
then it is the position nearest to my ideals.
Please, do forgive me if I cause you
dismay. You know as well as I ,hat I
wouldn't have dane it, if I could have
helped it, far I lave you so and I respect
you and, more than that, I adore you.
Your .. . .
He read the letter. Far a moment he was
shocked, but then he had forgiven him. And
not only that ; he even respected him, far,
after all, this was something he himself had
never been able to do.
c I have succeeded,' he thought, 'in making hiro what I never could be. He really is
the embodiment of alI my ambitions and unattained goals.'

R. R.K.

