IO

CAMPASTIMES

[February 15th, 1963

NEWS AND VIEWS
By

EDITORIAL
Wither Sanctuary
The experience of the I?3ssengers on a bus
between Adyar and Narmada Hostel recendy,
was rather di/ferent. They realised tbeir bus1.1. T. not State Transport-had been stopped
in thc midst of our jungle. Later it was discovered that a herd of deer had been complacently crossing the Delhi Avenue and beyond
them half a dozen or morc cows were resting for thc night. Fortunately it was these
f dears' and not something in thc
nature of
thc rnan who was found dangling at thc wrong
end of the rape in front of thc main gate
eighteen months ago. Despite the possibility
that things may have been nastier like for
example, when a gentleman on his seooter
during a drizzle skidded in trying to avoid a
similar herd of I dears ' .
Meister Ekkehart \Vrote, ' Some people \Vant
to see God with their eyes as they see a cow,
• and love Him as they love a cow for the milk
and cheese and protit it brings them '. But
for a11 that and ' Gau Mata ' it is a shame, the
way these outrageous animals are aIlowed to
move along tbe roads and streets. Not oruy
do they con.titute a perpetuaI threat to motorists, but what i. equalIy bad, they along with
goats seem to indulge in eating the fiora
from the • gardens' of the Institute Sta/f.
No wonder • Waldo ' Emerson despi.ed them
and wrote • My cow mi1ks me '.

This campus used to be a sanctuary and
that is preci.ely how we are keeping it. That
was precisely the reason why a member of
the teaching faculty recently said • Hi' and
o/fered to show the hissing snake On his drawing room table the way out.
People the world over love deer and go to
zoo, to watch them and to feed them. They
even go to watch snakes. Bangkok even maintains snake pits, which are a great tourist
attraction. But in all fairness wc should
constitute or, at least, have rules and regulations for those who are our companions of
the sanctuary.

FffiST SMOKE
By blithers and jimiry, he'd show he was no
funk:
Leapt elfi n desirc, but scare carne along, and
Slowed down the jig that in a spiralling
tempo
Was screwing in imp~tience away past
prudence.
Now it was even; now he was afraid again;
Unstruck the match dropped into the arms
of the weed.
Other blades rustled. The breeze ushered
in the halloo,
That in familiar octanes preceded the gang.
I Look fellows, he's giving us a treat: a
whole
Packet of hoodles ! Who'd have thought
our sweet saint
Was areaI cool chimney-he always seemed
sober'
Poor scare took fiight. Look the frantic
show-off
has struck, and li t, and breathed-its done
I Lord, is this all,' he thought, and remained
innocent.

P.

MOHAN.

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

SURjlT RANDHAVA

About a fortnight befprc thc 'Vinter Vacations started, it \Vas a common sight to see
some of the boys going around settling accounts and making sure they had enough
money for the fare home. Carne D minus tcn
days and the rush to the station began. About
fifty freshers (still quite green) went to thc
extent of sleeping a night at the booking
office. (Refer to P. C. Gupta's cartoon at the
recent cxhibition). They got their tickets aH
right but after having been stepped on by
anxious passengers, stray dogs and the like,
they swore never to try it again. Anyway, it
was Jaideep's bright idea in the first pIace.
A number of us took the De Luxe northwards. The train journey itself was without
much. incident except that somewhere before
Agra the valve mechanism of one of the
cylinders broke down. Immediately about
thirty engineers trooped down to the trouble
spot and began handing advice left and right.
Everything from using a di/ferent fuel to
changing the locomotive was suggested and it
was only by a master feat of self-control that
the loco crew did not sit down by the side
of the tracks and burst into tears. Sid kept
his eyes busy throughout the journey and
towards th.e end he even carne up and offered
us oranges. Kapur' The Father of tbe Film
Club' caused a bit of mild embarrassmeot
when he 10ud1y mistook tbe Ticket Collector
for a dining car waiter. Morale was definiteIy
high.
The Capitai this winter was simply fabulou~.
The weather was crisp and everything was
just about right. Food was more delicious,
the students less studious, the music jazzier,
and the girls prettier than ever. As a wise
owl once hooied, 'Delhi is a disease: It
simply gets you.'
Most of the Staff members seem to have
moved into the Campus. The obvious result
is that colourfullanguage amongst the students
is rapidly on tbe decline.
Jaggi says that everytime he walks down
Banyan Avenue past the Electrical Sciences
Block he feels like stretching out his hand,
grabbing hold of one end of the bui!ding and
pulIing it unti! it becomes parallel to the road.
The last week of January was hectic with
sports and cultural activities. The order to
suspend tests and alI other subversive activities
was well received and put to good use.
Personally, I think it rather unfair to the
Fourth Year to conduct tournaments 00 an
Inter Class basis. A good number of their
sportsmen have been weeded aut over a period
of three years and handed over to the present
Third Year. It would have been better to
have the competitions amongst the departments, in which cases the Mechanicals would
have certain1y swep~ the show.
The acceleration of the Courses seerns to be
the topic of discussion alI round. . Sen, for
one has quickened his pace of walkmg. The
final examinations are not too far oH either.
Faces seem to Iook Iarger and shaving is
detinitely occupying very little of the lITians
time. After all, a 10t of hard work has to be
put in to carry on in the best IIT in the
country.
People walking to the Civil Engineering
Block a few days back rubbed their eyes in
amazement as they saw a stream of water
shooting out of the middle of the road, like on
those famed Texan gushers. I An Artesian',
they thought. I Now our water problem is
definitely licked.' Sometime later to everybody's dismay it turned out to be onIy an
underground water conduit ruptured by some
aver enthusiastic excavator's pick.
By a horrible quirk of fate I happened to be
around last week when Sehgal Sahib (he
thinks he is a culinary expert) decided to try
his hand at making 'halwa'. It was aIl right
except that it was black in colour, there was
too much water far too much fat, and the vile
thing (normaIly solid) had to be consumed
io mugs. We just about restrai~ed him from
trying aut some of the other ltems he had
in mind.
Idea oj Ih. Month.-How about a sta/f car

LlBRARY HOURS

Sir,
I fail to undcrstand thc working hours of
our library. It functions from 9-30 a.m. to
4-30 p.m. Classes finish at 4 p.m. When
are we expected to use the library? Is it
meant oruy for rushing in during the lunch
hour, borrowing a book, and rushing aut to
a~tend the oext class? At present, the only
tlme we get to study the bookshelves and Jook
through the periodcals is on Saturday afternoons. Now that statf quarters are ready, it
would be very much appreciated if the library
working hours were extended to 7-30 p.m.
Yours etc.,
R. A. VASWANI.

CURVES ANO STRONG FEELING
Sir,
It is amazing that the perfidious hush-hush
atti tu de towards sex reminiscent of an eHete
Victorian restraint still persists amongst uso
At a time when some frank and enlightening
views on the aesthetic views of life in a technologically strewn atmosphere are most
enlivening, it is a pity that the frustrated critic
should choose to his false notions of morality.
From the generai tenor of his views it is
obvious that he criticises just for criticism's
sake and his views, in brief, are merely snobstu~. The author has so vivid.ly delineated
the unportance.of aesthetic beauty in everydsy
life wlth a loglc harmoruollsly blended with
sound facts of normal human behaviour. IYoU '
cannot stand pat upon the pats .. Society, like
each .person in it, is a growiog, Iiving thing,
aod lt must have fresh food and new clothes.
So to pretend that men in the twentieth
century can live under laws made in the eight~enth, . or that children. can be brought up
Iike thelr grandparents, IS to act as if society
instead of being alive as an oak, were dead a~
a rock '-Walter Lippmann.
Yours truly,
V. RANGANATHAN.
BACHELOR'S PITY

Sir,

If a thought i8 given to the discrimination
made between thc bachelor and the married
staff .members of this Institute) it would be
interesting to note tbat the Chief Minister of
Madras, Sri Kamaraja Nadar and the late
Chief Minister of West Bengal, Dr. B. C. Roy
would not have received any accommodation
in tbc Campus except 00 chumery basis, if
they would have been a member of the sta/f of
this Institute. There are a number of great
sons of India who have never married aod
have dedicated their lives to the c~use of
independence and development of. this
country. They should be thankful that no
such rules are followed where they are working or have s'pent their lives.
Yours,
A FORMER BACHELoR.
Get ye a Woman, .ire! Ed.

An litanains 3 Worries
No Parking
Will the authorities ensure that the driveway in front of thc present ad.ministrativc
office is kept free of parked cars? Certainly,
there is enough parking space nearby far any
oumber of cars, without the necessity of eocroachiog and causing obstruction on the
driveway. It is strange that the No Parking
signs painted in large letters in front of thc
buildiog shouId go unooticed. Perhaps it is
rather conveniently ignored.
A possible explanation for cars being
parked in front of C. E. Building may be
that this is the ooly space shady throughout the day and free from bird '5 dropping, falliog branches etc.-Ed.
race of forty laps around Delhi and Bonn
Avenue. l'd pIace my bet on one of the three
infuriated sewing machines bearing the namc
Volkswagen and flitting around in the campus.

