C A.M P A S T 1M E S

February 15th, 1963}
No Conferences, Please
While conferences are no doubt, thc order
of the ,day, woula it not be better if (unoflicial) oflice-table conferences, by. the staff
in generaI and the ladlcs III partlcular, are
held only during the lunch recess ?
I,I.T. Standard Time, Please
Similar to thc Indian Standard Time, the

Greenwich Mean Time, etc., why not we
have an I.T.T. Standard Time? This
should eliminate the different timings observed by thc various sections and departfficnts now. If necessary, a dock towcr may
be installed in front of thc prescnt adrninistrative officc, to ensure thc prompt coming
in (and also, of course, the going out) of the
staff and students alike.
.
'AN

ITANIAN'

ANTI·GARDEN
Dear Editor,
The present 'Nationa~ ~mergency' cau~ed
by the Chinese aggresslOD has had aCcaSlOfl
to lead the Governrnent of India to issue
instructions to observe the utmost economy
in expenditure. One is surpr~sed to ~ee the
so-called horticultural operatlons gomg on
in full swing in certain parts of tbe Campus.
Can't these operations be deferred till the
c Emergency' ceases?

Yours,
, ECONOMIST ' •

minimum educational qualification for the
Defence Services is on1y appearance .at tbe
S.S.L.C. examination and, ther.efore, it would
be wasteful of human material so badly
needed at this criticai time, if pupils of the
tenth standard are detain.ed. This, I am
sure, would be welcomed by many. When
the Selection Examination is abolished, why
not the Final Examination, too. I hear some
enthusiastic students (obviously duU) say:
, True, it can be abolished as well.' Examinations have nowadays become a gamble;
it is quite likely that a dull-headed pupil
comes out of the examination with flying
colours, while the studious and the industriaus get plucked.
Why not the I.I.T., too, dispense with the
various examinations-terminal, half-yearly,
final and so on? Students who have completed the course by attending the lectures
may be issued with certificates of .merit. At
the present emergency, more and more technical personnel is needed than ever before,
and the Chinese cannot wait on the boundary
for us to complete the course by passing the
examinations! Such abolition of examinations!
at alI institutions, including the I.I.T., willsave
much of students' health, energy, time (in
some cases lives!), tons of stationery (vide
'Save for tbe brave ') and bottles of ink
consumed, the examiners' heavy fees (which
we cannot afford at the present emergency)
and .bove ali and most important of them
all, the headache to the examiners to go
through ali the answer papers. The .mount
so saved could be credited to the N ational
Delence Fund, and I will take tbe personal
responsibility of handing over the amount so
saved to our Honourable Prime Minister,
P.ndit N ehm, at Delhi.
Any objections to this suggestion please ?

POWERTY
Sir,
While inaugurating the Rihand Dam in
Uttar Pradesh, the Prime Minister said
c Power is
the onIy cure for poverty'.
Judgecl by this say~ng,. one fee.ls that .~ur
Institute rnust be qUlte rlch! It IS a famlhar
happening to see the Street Lights (in the
residential coIony) switched on even before
tbe twilight hour. Many a time it has been
noticed that the lights were on even as early
as 4-30 p.m. If not for conserving the Institute fund, at least for the sake of austerity
induced by the National Emergency, will the
authorities kindly see to it that street Iights
are switched on to serve the real purpose of
driving away the darkness ?

Yours etc,.
, INTERESTED '

REPUBLIC DAY
At Survey Camp Site at
Thiruneermalai

Yours etc,
ONE INTERESTED.

NO EXAMS, PLEASE!
Sir,
We are undergoing a period of emergency
in view of the Chinese invasion on the Indian
soiI. Anything and everything at our disposaI is given to the nation to strengthen its
war effort and mobilise its defence potential.
There is spontaneous enthusiasm all round to
help the Government to push back the
Chinese. I Hear no rumours, Spread no
rumours ' I 'Ornaments for Armaments' ,
'Save for the brave' -these are some of the
slogans we frequently see in the dailies.
Working hours in offices have been enhanced
by half an hour. A farmer in Andhra gives
his only saving of Rupees five and naye paise
twenty·two to its Chief Ministerand hisgesture
gets wide publicity. The I.I.T. hands over
a 'big' cheque to Shri Kamaraj, our popular
Chief Minister. The medley of disgruntled
groups become one, each politica] party suspends its demands, sets aside its political
ideologies and principles and helps the country
in strengthening the fawans' braving against
the recalcitrant Chinese.
Of the many things done in the name of
emergency is the instructions of the Director
of Public Instruction of our State to alI the
schools not to detain any pupil in the selection examinations in the S.S.L.C. c1ass, or
the tenth standard. His argument is that the

It was in a perfectly quiet and solernn
manner that we celebrated the Republic
Day at the site of the Survey Camp at
Thiruneermalai near Pallavaram OD 26th
January. The National Flag was hoisted
by Sri R. Radhakrishnan and the entire
ceremony was gane tbrough with a quiet
fervour by the students and staff. After
the Singing of the National Anthem,
sweets were distributed and then the
function came to a close.

Il
Gobblledegook-(Conti1lued)
V. Certa in nouns and verbs take the preposition at the end of a sentence and this is
more often ignored by the I.I.T. Mr. Fowler,
who maintains the legitimacy of the prepositional ending in literary English, observes in
his Modern English Usage that 'the remarkable freedom enjoyed by English in putting
its prepositions late and omitting its relatives
is an important element in thc flexibility of
the language'. The following are some of
thc examples with a prepositional ending:
His request cannot be acceded io.
The1eave may be availed of by him.
3. This is pravidedfor in the Statute.
4. Thc matter wiU be decided upon.
5. Your requestcannot be complied with.
b. Be is known the warld aver.
7. This, I insist ono
8. There are good rules to live by.
9. I dislike being talked abollt.
IO. Such a result cannot be wondered at.
When an incumbent says that he rejoins duty
after availing leave, we just sympathize with
his poor knowledge of grammar in having
omitted a necessary preposition 'of'.
VI. Memoranda should always be in third
person, and never in the secondo Instructions
in a copy of a letter communicated to any
third party should also be in the third person.
Example : A letter addressed to XYZ and
copy endorsed to t he Estate Oflicer. The
latter should be addressed in the third
persoo thus : I He is requested to hand aver
keys of house number Q to ABC.' If you
begin 'You are requested to .•. etc.', you
bave erred.
I.

2.

VII. a.m. and p.m., meaning ante tneTidiem
and posi meridiem, should always be in small
letters and never as ' A. M.' , P. M.' A. M.
in capitals means Aie Ministry or Albert
Medal; P. M. means Post Master, Prime
Minister or Provost Marsh.l. (Vide Oxford
English Dietionary). Stenographer and typists
of the I.I.T. will kindly note tbis.

VIII. 'the 20-12~I962 ' :--this is another
absurdity committed by typists and stenographers here. This is nothing but lack of
understanding of what has been wrìtten or
typed. Either it should be • the 20tb of
December 1962', or '20-12-1962'. 'The
20-12-1962' is ridiculous. The Guide for
Drafting Indian Siandard, however, states that
the month shall not be indicated by numerals,
but shall be spelt in full or abbreviated by
Itheir first three . Iphabets only. (infraj.
IX. ' Kind Signature': This is another
term at which I am surprised. I do not
know whether there is also a signature which
is unkind or CTuel. This adjective can sensibly
be eschewed.
X. 'With reference to', c reference cited
above " 'thc undersigned is directed to " , I
am directed to', and 'kind attention is
invited to '-these are some of thc pompous
and hackneyed expressions used in governmeot correspondence, and, any letter, you
may lay your hands on, will have these
phrases. If you use any new expression or
phrase, of course, without altering its meaning, it is 100ked upon with disfavour and tbe
clerk concerned is termed not-a-good drafter or
a bad correspondent. Why the phrase 'with
reference to' be not substituted by 'in response
to " , in advertence to " 'anent to ' 'or adverting to' nobody knows. They just say that you
should not employ such expressions. Tlze
Guide for Draftitlg 11ldian Stalldard does not
throw any light regarding this. It may be of
interest to note here that an enthusiastic
reader, probably averse to this type of bureaucratism, has suggested in a magazine, that the
clerk who writes 'the undersigned is
directed ' ought to have his increments withheld, until sl,lch l ime he gives an undertaking
on oath never to do it again; that he who
employs the expression 'the matter is under
active consideration' needs warning that it
is time he pulled himself up; .nd that the
writer who drafts ' it is regretted) should be
dealt with in such a way that he regrets his
pessimistic outlook.
(Contùlued on page 13)

