/
I

12

CAMPASTIMES

[February 15th, 1963

Dr. Shrimali-(Colltillued from poge 1)
Institutes of Technology ? I must say that
tbere are a number of students in tbe lI.
T's who will match- if not outmatch-any
studeot in any foreign university. or
course, the Indian Institutes of Technology cootaio the cream of Indian
studeot society. But even in other colleges the standard of education is not low.
I must say, however, that the number of
failures is large.'
Alla1ltlm suggested that this may be due to
the system of cxamination.
4 Whatever
that may be/ Dr. Shrimali
answered, 'the standard of aur III Class
students has' to be raised. Their standard is
lower than thase of foreign stuclents, aod we
should try to bring it up. We must reduce
the number of failures as far as possible'. He
looked upon ' passing and failing from an
interesting viewpoint. 'Failures are 3 waste
of man·power,' he said.
He wholeheartedly agreed with B. R. PaCs
suggestion that only selected students should
be admitted to the universities far higher
education. Pai pointed aut that a student
who has passed School ·Final or Pre-University, is never satisfied with his studies. Re
always wants to go in far higher and higher
degrees, as too much value is attached to these
higher degrees.
Alternative Opportunities
Dr. Shrimali said that this \Vas due to the
lack of alternative opportunities. At presento
there were very few lines to whieh a student
after passing out from his or her school could
go. It was essential that students must be
shown ways other than pursuance of studies
in universities in order to make a living. The
number of alternative prospects depended
upon the economie condition of the cou ntry.
As India advances economical1y, more of such
opportunities wouId be produced.
Dr. Shrimali said he favoured students of
B. Tech. going in for practical training after
getting their degrees rather than studying far
M. Tech. or any othe,r form of higher studies.
Re was rcluctant to answer Vikram Raa' s
queries as to whether he favoured shortening
of the five-ye<J.r degree course in engineering.
'The Ministry of Scientific Research and
Culturai Affairs is considering that questiono
Please ask my collegue, Prof. Humayun Kabir,
about it/ he said.
But when Vikram pre5sed for his personal
view on the question, he said he did not want
the present standard of engineering education
to be lowered. ' Whatever we do-whether we
shorten the duration of the course or not-we
cannot afford to let the standard go down,'
he said.
He agreed with Atlallthu that there was a
tendency among students as well as elders to
plaee more and more trust in foreign studies
and foreign equiprnent. He said this was a
sad state of affairs. Il was not good that
employers were having a very high esteem for
a candidate only on account of his having
foreign qualifications. He called upon students
to work industriously unti 1 thc day when
Indian students, Indian goods and Indian
machinery would be regarded with as much, if
not more, respect as foreign ooes.
On this optimistic note the interview ended.
Pai thanked thc Minister for the kind way in
which he had answercd their many questions,
after which Dr. Shrimali walked back into
his bungalow.
T. S. ANANTHU
M. VIKRAM RAO
t

B.

RAMCHANDRA PAI

Dr. Deshmukh-(C07ztinued fr071l page I)
Mudaliar called a meeting of thc studcnts
and staft' of the Madras University quite ear1y
after thc emergency. He has indicatcd many
ways in which the students ean help. In the
beginning, it was for collections to contribute
to the N ational Defence Fund, but later the

channel bccame mOre regularised and it is
not everyone who can help us except that
everyone can give to an accredited authority.
Next suggestion was that the N.C.C. should
be made compulsory, and I believe most
universities are taking 5tCpS in that direction.
It is made compulsory not by direct law
but by providing in the regulation for it in
the ordinance that 75 per cent attendance
at parade \ViU be necessary for those who are
cligible far N.C.C., and those who are not
admitted in thc N.C.C. because they are not
medically fit, would have to attend some per·
centage of somethiog else like P.T. which I
also think the colleges and universities wiU
organise, and so far as the girls are concerned, '
may be, it will not be P.T. but home medicaI
classes and first·aid classes or many other
classes undertaken with a view to assist.
Students should al50 en5ure that there is a
closer integration among student bodies
whether it exists in the South Or North, but in
many student bodie,s you have [riction some·
times and differenccs leading to split in th e
unions. There are uni versities where there
is more than one dcfenee effort boày.
Now, that ' does not seem right somehow,
somebody is in error, and it seems to me
that it should be Tealiscd by the student world
that they should bring greater integration
among their ranks. Thcn there is a possibility,
I think, of their being used far civil defence
organisations. In Delhi there is an idea that
you ought to help the police in controlling
traffico The suggestion has been put fonvard
that students should volunteer to learn to
controi traffic so that they may have a sense
of doing something and relieving Government organisations. Above all, I suppose this
emergency which is expected to be of a very
long duration, has put the nation 00 its metde.
No\v, that means that as years pass by, those
who are students today will be citizens
tomorrow occupying various rolls in the life

l'

of thc country. Now, if they happen to have
wasted their time at the uniycrsity or not fuHy
utilised it, th en they \VilI be less effective
rncmbers of the society supposcd to be
organised 011 this sort of permanent war
effort. That mcans that the motivation of
students must be different towards their
studies. It,is no longer a case of getting a
label that you pass a certain examination and,
therefore, you are eligible for some sort of job.
There should be a joint effort to ensure that
wnatever tbe job yOll secure you are com·
petent to do efficiently aod diligeotly. That
imparts a great deal more of discipline and
understanding of the aims and objects of education. If the students learn their lessons
well, then, I think, they will be making last·
ing contribution to the defence effort than
some of those things which in the nature of
things will be transient.'

Accelerating Courses
In reply to Vikram Rao's query as to
whether under thc present circumstances it
would be advisable to sharten aur courses,
Dr. Desll71zukh replied that as regards medicine,
the actual service put in for defence organisations would be regarded as a year spent as
an intern or house surgeon. As regards
technological studies, it is the brevity of time
interval that matters. I But,' he addcd, • this
does not necessarily mean shortening the
course. Although there may be some marginai
or peripheral adjustment, essentially it means
that ali the apparatu. of education, the workshops, the laboratories and even the teachers
wili be so utilised that larger number of
students pass through this process, but
essentially with the sa me time of cultivation
that we contemplated in the beginning,
because obviously it wDuld not be' in thc
interest of anyone to let loo.e on the country
somebody who does not have the ability to
discharge the function that will be entrusted

