CAMPASTIMES

14

WHAT IS GRAVITY?
By HERMANN BONDI, F.R.S.

Mr. Bondi is Professor of Applied Mathematies at King's College, London
University, and the autlzoT DJ 'Cosn.ology' and 'Tile Universe at Large'.
There is no force with which wc are quite
so familiar in our daily lives as gravity. From
eady youth we know that when we fall we
hurt ourselves. We know that this is the
force that keeps us on the ground, that Qur
legs must resist at every momento Nevertheless, science finds it rather difficult to digest
gravity, and our best modero theory of gravitatian, Einstein's theoeYI is a complete and
beautiful theory that yet does not quite lìt in
with the rest of physies.
The investigation of gravity in a scientific
manner started with Galileo, and he faund the
first of the great peculiarities of gravity. He
discovered that .ll bodies fall equally fast.
It is dear that this is only true when no other

farees act.

1ft for example, air resistance is

alIowed to act at the same time as gravity,
and acts diffc::rently on two bodies, then they
will not fall at the same speed-like a feather
.nd a stee! ballo On the other hand, if no
ather force is acting, as in empty space. then
we kno\V now with great accuracy that Galileo
was right, and that all bodie. faH equal1y fast.
This means that we cannot switch off gravityit means that gravity hooks on to every body.
This is different from all other fields. An
electrie field will puH a charged body but not
ane that is everywhere neutraI. If it is highly
charged,. it will be pulled strongly. If it i.
. weakly eharged, it will be pulled lightly. lf it
is uncharged, it will not be pulled not allo A
magnet will pick up a piece of steel but will
not have any attraction for glasso
A Difficult Force to Investigate
This property of gravity is part of the reasnn why it is such a difficult force to investigate. When we do experiments in physics,
we try to see what things are like when we
switch on something and alsa when we switch
it of! to sce what the consequences of the
particular condition are. But gravity is always
there. Therefore experiments on gravity are
not easy, and the number that can be carried
out effectively is rather Hmited.
A second peculiarity of gravity is that it is a
farce that always has the same sign. Gravity
is always attractive: bodies always pull towards
each other.
A third and rather more diffieult peculiarity .
to understaod is that it is an exceptionally
weak force. Perhaps this sounds rather odd
when we conduct alI our daily lives under
the stress of gravity. But wc must rernemhcr
that the Earth which holds us down is a very
big body. If we go into other realms of
physics, then the physicist plays with small
particles in his laboratory and ~xamines thc
forces that act between thern. Here, perhaps,
one can see in the most dramatic fashion how
wcak gravity is. Two of thc most important
constituents of matter-the proton and thc
electron-are both charged, and both have
mass, so that we expect them to interact both
eleetricallyand gravitationally. The electrieal
force between them varies like the inverse
square of their distance, just like the gravitational force. Of course, we cannot measurc
the gravitational force between them-it is far
too weak. But we can compute it, and when
we compare the electrical farce with the gravitational one, the ratio turno out to be a
monstrous number-one that has to be written
with forty digits. Thc electrical force is vastly greater than the gravitational one. How
then does it cQme about that gravity is so
important for 'us, whereas electrical forces
apparently are not so significant? The point
here is that electrical forces tend to neutralize
each other. If we think again of the Earth·,
alt the protons in it, or virtualIy alI of them,
are shielded by electrons, and so the electrica!
force of the Earth on us is very weak. But, in
gravity, no sueh shielding is possible. The
gr.vitational pull of every particle is added to

the gravitational pulI of every other particle,
and so we get the impressive totai that is
the farce of gravity.
There is yet another peculiarity of gravity
c10sely connected, one would think, with this
property of weakness, which we do not understand at all clear1y. lndeed, it seems surprising that there should be such an enormous
ratio between any two quantities in physics as
there is between electrica! and gravitational
forces. But let us imagine that gravity were
stronger and electric interactions weaker. It
is electrical intera-::tions that make up the
strength of materials, ' that give solid bodies
their rigidity and fluids their compressibility,
and aH these things that we cali the structure
of m.tter. Now consider the surface of the
Earth. This is itself heavy and pulled towards
the centre, and ooly does not faH because the
under1ying material is so strong and resists this
tendency of the surface to faH in. But if we
suppose that gravity \Vere strong, then this outside of the Earth could come in and we could
indeed imagine engineers attaching apparatus
to it,.allowing it to come in towards the centre
and gaining energy from this.
Energy from Contraction
By so gaining energy, by giving in to gravity
as it \Vere, gravity itself would be increased .
The farce on the surface in the new. condition
would be greater than in the old one. This is
the opposite of what happens with any other
force. If we stretch a string and we allow
the ends to be pulled together, then this pulling together, this giving in to the force, will
diminish the force itsclf. And similarly with
aH other forces: only in gravity do we actu.Hy
increase it by giving in to it. Our engineers
on this hypothetical Earth, then, when they
were next short of energyor power, could a1l0w
the Earth to contract a little further, and after
that contraction they would be in a more
favourable position than before to extract more
energy. They need not take the Earth-they
could take an orange and aUow that to contract
to a minute size, and allow it to go 00 contracting and gain more and more energy from it.
The ooly reason why this is impossiblé is
because gravity is so weak. If this were not
impossible, thcn there would be little point in
physies in talking about energy, because every
system, every body, could gain as much energy
as it liked by allowing itself to contraet a little
under gravity.
Indeed, we can compare energy in physics
as a ' measure of exchange value between heat
and electrical energy .nd all the o'hers with
money in an economy, which is also a measure
of exchange value. If gravity were much
stronger and we could gain energy by allowing
bodies to contract, there would be as little
point in thmking about energy in physics as
there would be in thinking about money in an
economy in which everybody had a private
money-printing presso
Einstein and N ewton
I hope to have pointed out enough about the
peculiarities of gravity to make it cIear that
we should expect any decent theory of gravity
to beone that is diff~ rent from all other theories
in physies. This is indeed the case with the
theory of gravity we now have-Einstein's
theory of gravitation-which for historical
reasons is usually called the Generai Theory
of Relativity, although this is not a particularly
good name. This theory grew out of the first
comprehensive theory of gravitation we had,
which was Newton's theory. · Newton's theory
of gravity was so good at describing thc motion
of bodies under gravity that astronomers could
use it to calculate the motion of alI the celestial
bodies, the planets and their satellites, with
eno.rrnous accuracy and to predict eclipses to
the secondo lt was an extraordinari1y good

[February 15th, 1963
theory in the sense that it predicted innumerable facts with great accuracy.
Why, then, have we left this theory I There
are fundamentally two reasons. First, on
rather generaI groy.nds, in Newtonian theory
gravity is very much a force like a11 tbc others,
and so the theory fails to account for the peculiar
nature of gravity. Secondly, Newtonian theory
did not deal with light. This was beyond the
physics of his day, and it is only in more recent
times that we have learned to describe well the
motion of light. The theory that describes
this clearly and briefly is the Special Theory
of Relativity, also due to Einstein. It so
happens that Newton's theory of gravitation is
in fact incompatible with the Special Theory
of Relativity, which wc know from countless
experiments to describe the motion of light and
of fast particles with great .ccuracy. Therefore
we reqwre a new theory of gravitation and
Einstein's attack 00 the problem was made for
these reasons.
.
Newtonian theory of dynamics starts of! with
Newton's first law, which says that if no force
acts 00 a body, it moves in a straight line with
COnstant velocity. We can look at this as saying that this motion in a straight line with
constant speed is the standard motion of
matter. If matter moves in this way, then no
special explanation is required. It is only when
matter moves in a different \Vay, when matter
is accelerated, that we have to look for a force
that causes this acceleration . What Newton
told us, in effect, and where he differed so
greatly from his predecessors, is that if a body
moves in a straight li ne with constant speed,
then it is a waste of time to look for a force
responsible for this motion. Wc serve a
purpose only in lookiog for a farce when there
is acceleration.
An Unverifiable Law
How would a physicist go about verifying
this important law of Newton's? Suppose he
had a test body, then he would go round this
test bodyand make sure that no rope \Vas pulling it; next he would make sure that there
was no electric charge on it so that it could
not be pulled by.n electric lìeld. He would
try to make su re that it was, not magnetized
so that magnetic fields could not pull it. In
this way, with sufficient care, he could exc1ude
every field of foree pulling the body, every field
other than gravity. There is nO way in which
he could exclude gravity, since aH bodies fall
equally, since there is no shielding against
gravity. We have therefore to deduce regretfully that Newton's first law describes an
unattainable state. It is an unverifiable law.
. So one is \ed to ,hink whether one should not
perhaps try to formulate tbings a little
differently. Since gravity is the one force that
cannot be switched off, should we not perhaps
look at the motioo of matter under both gravity
and inertia, the freely falling motion of matter,
as its staodard motion, and look for a force
on1y when a body deviates from this standard
motion? Geometrically the standard motion
would be much harder to describe thao N ewtoo's standard motion of straight Hne motion
with constant speed. On the other hand, in
this way we would s.et gravity apart from a11
other forces' in accordance with its pcculiarities,
and we would be able to dc:scribe it in a
logically far more satisfaetory way.
Let us now go back to Galileo's law that aH
bodies faH equally fast. What does this meanl
It means when I am falling freely and I hold
a book in my hand and let go of ,his book,
it will fall with me because the book and I
will fall at the same speed, and so the book
wiU not move relative to me. When I am falling freely, theredoes oot seem to be any gravity.
Wc know this well nowadays from artificial
satellites. The astrooauts in artificial satellites
experience weightlessness. This merely means
that since the satellite and the astrooaut in it
and all the equipment there are falling
freely, giving in to gravity without resistance,
therefore there is no differential motion-aU
move together. Hence inside the spaceship
a book released wiU stay where it was put. Wc
can then say that as soon as we are falling free1y
we have abolished gravity, and we can demand
of any theory of gravitation that when gravity

