February 15th, 1963

J

has been abolished in this way by moving with
it, then aU the things we know in physics
ordinarily, in particular the laws of the propa~
gation of light and fast particles described in
special relativity, should apply.
However) if we search a littie further, then
this abolition of gravity is rather a laeai affair
only.
Suppose W~ fcll down in a box,
down a iift shaft, locally we would not notice
gravity, but if we looked out a long way and
saw across to a different pIace where gravity
was in a different direction-saw, sha11 we 5ay,
a meteor coming down-then we would not
have abolished gravity there. because the pull
of the force out there is in a different direetion
from what it is here. In ather words, we
cannat abolish the inhomogeneity of the gravi.
tational field .
When Gravity Seems Absent
We can think about this in a slightly different way. Let us imagine that we bave a shaft
going vertically downwards right through the
centre of the Earth, and suppose we have a big
lift-a big box that starts from here at rest,
. and then falls down freely faster and faster
. to the centre of the Earth. If we imagine
aurselves in this box, then during the faH
've shall be weightless, and gravity in the first
instance \ViU appear to have been abolished.
However, imagine twa particles initially at
rcst on apposite sides of this box-they are
both falling freely, that is to say they are
both falling towards the centre of the Earth ;
and so these twa particles originally at rest
wil1, in fact, collide when we pass through tbe
centre of thc Earth. In ather wards, thc fact
that thc direetion of gravit), is not quite thc
same OD apposite walls of the Iift gives us a
residual quality of gravity that cannot be abolished ; a relative acceleration of neighbouring
~
particles.
Einstein then used this relative acceleration
of neighbouring partic1es combined with the
local validity of special relativity to create his
theory of gravitation. In this way the theory
describes the reaction of bodies to the gravitational field, but it has to be supplemented by
another condition, namely a condition that
shows how the gravitational field is produced.
How do massive bodies create gravitational
fields ? Rere again, led on b y Newtonian
theory, orre can show that these expressions
that describe the relative acceleration of neighbouring particle. can readily be combined to
give an expression that one can put equal to
the source of the field. Moreover, when this
is done-and this is o~e of the great beauties of
the theory-it expresses in itself automatical1y
one of the great laws of physics: the laws of
conservation of.mass, ~nergy, and momentum.
Different froro Ali Other Force.
Thus Einstein created a new theory of gravitation, a theory that is satisfactory far beyond
anything that Newton did because it fits in
with special relativity and because it explains
several of the peculiarities that I mentioned
earlier. Naturally, all bodies fall equally fast
in this theory because it is based 00 the
abolishability of gravity. Again, it puts the
energy of gravity into a different compartment
from the energy of other forces. It makes
gravity a force different from alI the others.
On the other hand, there-is little in the theory
to indicate why gravity is always attractive.
In physics a theory must not only be
satisfyiog and self-consistent-it also has to
fit the facts. What demands can we make
here on Einstein's theory? The enormous
success of Newton's theory in accounting far
motions within the solar system makes it clear
that any other theory of gravitation must
lead to substantially the same results as Newton's theory if it is to agree with observatioo
at all, and indeed Einstein's theory.does. But
it goes beyond Newton's theory, in particu]ar,
in that it includes the motion of light. It
can tell us, as Newton's theory cannot, how
light is affected by gravitational fields. It
also gives, for the motion of the planets,
slightly different answers from Newton's
theory; and some of the most important
tests of the theory are concerned precisely
with a check of these forecasts of the theory.
What we now need urgently is some fonn
of junction between this theory of gravitation,

CAMPASTIMES

15

the best theory of gravitation that we have,
and the rest of physics. A great deal of wbrk
is going 00 in this field, but unfortunately the
ar;tswer seems to be elusive. It is a doubly
difficult subject-difficult because gravity is a
peculiar force and rightly described in a special
way, and because its mathematical expression
is so exceedingly complex; but we hope to
gain much more insight once this gap between
the theory of gravitation and the rest of physics has been c1osed.
-Tlzird Programme.
(Reprinted from THE LISTENER,
November 29, 1962).

If c miss is as good as a mile',
That's no reasoo far me to worry,
Since mite is no Ionger than Nile,
I will make my rhymes to be merry.
If 'haste does make indeed a waste'.
That's no reason for me to worry,
Since waste alI I make before I taste,
I will make my rhymes to be merry.
If ' sweet are the uses of adversity' ,
That's no reason for me to worry,
Since sweeter are those of relaxity,
I will make my rhyme. to he merry.
If I should ' look before Ileap',
That's no reason for me to worry,
Since I sban't, far a Ieap, be first to peep,
I will make my rhymes to be merry.

E. S.

BHAGIRATHA

On Courage-( Continued from page 5)
not wrecking the peace of a happy home by
his foolish attitude ?
People who stick to their concepts of religion
and politics without caring for the untold
misery that they cause around themselves
have no sense of courage. They behold with
their eyes innocent people being sacrificed at
the altar of poverty, yet they persist in their
thoughts. It is not courage but mere stupidity.
Ultimately, it may prove to be a thorn in the
way to happiness of the world.
True courage lies in the suppression of the
ego. It is like a lighthouse on the slippery
rocks of TiJl1e standing unbaulked in the ocean
of circumstance with waves Iashing in ali their
fury-yet this noble beacon sends its penetrating radiance to unselfish people-whatever
c1ime he may be in.
One of the shining examples of courag~ is
that of Jesus. It's courage to pardon One's ....
enemies. He is true and sincere; He is kind
and merciful; Re loves Truth and lives in it.
Yet : When He is crucified on Calvary, He
has tbe courage to utter I Forgive them: For
they know not what they do!' · It is the
courage of the highest arder. It is Man at
his best. It is courage that unveils for us the
stars of God.
To do our duty unflinchingly in the midst
of fear is courage. To be noble in our duty
wiII be our humble service to the nation at
the present state.

==

GUESS WHAT?

R. P.

RAo.

LOOMBA

TRUE
CREASE ·
YOU STEP OUT
• to
• to

visit fnends
meetings

OR STEP IN
• to' your oHica ·
• to your Boss' Chambers

...

YOU WILL LOOK SMART
DRESSED WITH

STAT ENE
POL"ffSTfI\

n ~.

~5 %

WOOL

READY MADE TROUSERS •
wh ich keep TAILOR-TRUE
çrease at a l I tlmes .

• Keep Shape p\us
Fresh 'Look
• L ook Smarter ~
Extra Wear
• Wnnkte Resistant plus
Tai lor- T rue Crea se
• Washable at Home plus
Shrink and Moth Proof

• A créalion or" STATE

TRADERS

Khaleel Buildings,
Chickpet, BangaIOre-2.

