CAMPASTIMES

[February 15th, 1963

PERSONALITIES (7)

hours non-stop and others making up for this
overzealousness by not working at all, there is
the bathroom door which opening to the inside, has no lock or bolt outside. It is held
close by a simple (what's the other word l)
lateh, or, rather isn't held dose at ali but
opens with the slightest zephyr. Should SOmeone have been under the impression 1hat
Professors never dose their bathrooms ?
And then there was the buzzer which didn't
like to buzzo The first time it was worked
it angrily jumped off the wall.
'
And then there is the bolt, but
for it.

110

hole

And then there is the high diving board
with which some of the houscs seem to have
been equipped. No swimming pool was
however, visible. It now appears that thos;
ledges are meant to be landings for the' fire
escape' which, in spitc of the absence of rails
should prove to be of uncalculable use fo;
thieves.
. And then there were those monkeys who
mV3?ed. a professor's residence through the
venttIatlon holes above the staircase. Finding it impossible to ~se the same way aut,
they conc~ntrated thetr forces in the grou ndfioor puttlng uP. a war front of hissing and
bared teeth agalost the Professor's united
for~es entrenched at the top landing of the
stalrcase. The only way out for thesc unworthy descendants of Sugriva they blocked,
themselves : the front-door.
And then there is .. was .. oh, lct's forget it !

MR.

R.

NATARA]AN,

, R. Natarajan, lo A. s: says the legend on
the beard. You enter for your intcrview not
without trepidation and find that instead of a
stuffy, stiff-necked executive, you are confronted with a genial and smiling CQuntenance. Bis memory for faces and names is
fantastic o Re surprised US, in a reccot talk,
by mentioning that G-I wrote frequently for
Ca7llpastimes. That Siddhartha was thus
called in the I Year, and not very cftcn at
that, even wc took a momcnt to Tecollect.
Regarding Campasti11les he says that he
heartily approves of it and he feels that
humour should always be thc watchword.
One of the items most looked forward to on
the Annual Day is the Registrar's speech.
To any visitor the tide I Forever Amber'
would look innocent enough and quite a
serious tapic. Any such morbid conjectures
are rapidly dispelled by the hilarious words
that follow, regaling the audience with mirth
and incidentally and unavoidably adding to
the discomfiture of a few staff members who
bravely smile through it.
The Registrar has had a brilliant academic
career. His llniversity education was confined

I.A.S.

in Madras to the LoyoIa, Presidency and Law
Colleges in the order given. He passed out
with a string of medais to his credit and was
first among the Arts students in the LA.S.
examination.
Everyone here is quite conversant with his
passion for cricket. Hc enthusiastically takes
l'art in the Annual StafI vs. Students Match,
and his able captaincy this year on January 29
all but won the match for the staff. The
match ended in a time draw. Re also writcs
articles on cricket. He captains the LA.S.
IX in the Annual Match against the LP.S .
IX. But it wili come as a surprise to quite a
few that he \Vas a force to rcekon with in
Table T ennis in his college days. He won
many IDeaI tournaments, but obeying thc old
adagc that I discretion is the better part of
valour " he prudently kept-out of state and
national tournaments.
In a recent talk with him I asked him why
thc main roads inside the Campus \Vere named
as Delhi, Bonn and Madras Avenues. His
rejoinder spoke volumes. He said: I I.I.T.
Madras is a Tale of Three Cities '.
M.V.R.

Over A Cup of Aye Aye Tea
Lately, thc atmosphere of OUI Campus has
changed enormously. The fOIest hitherto
inhabited by deer and monkeys-not to
mentioo other specie& of the animai worldhas now new occupants: the Staff who have
moved ioto their brand-oew quarters,
which are in a c1ass by themselves.
The staircase, for example, seems to have
been designed for the dear old Pygmies of
Africa, for aoy person of normal height would
surely have to stoop in order to avoid being
brained by the ceiling. And I suppose we
should attribute it to shortage of wood that
thc fuses are opeo and at a height of about
two feet from the ground. Reliable sources
inform us that a certain Staff member's child
was sev_erely burnt by an electric shock due to
the above cccentricity. However, we are giad

to Jearn that the shortage has meanwhile been
overcome and thc exposed fuses and meters
are being covered by wooden boxes.
Someone, somewhere seerns to have got thc
briUiant idea of advocating against the taking
of a bath at night. To ensure this, no light
connection was made in the bathroom of
SOme particular type of quarters. Not being
satisfied with this, the designer contrived to
make the slope of the bathroom towards thc
bedroom. To top it all, thc shower takes up
an ideai position to fiood the whole bathroom.
The W.C. has got more than its share of
problems. The door is virtually unlockable
ane! . opens in such a way that, if accidentally
opened, it would pitch the person inside, right
into the commode. -.
Apart from Ìlushes working for twenty-four

Two new ~ates .have been built oppisite
C.L.R.I. to glve eVldence of the existence of
something inside of what looks Iike an uninhabited foresto 'VVhat this something is
however, nobody is able to find out unles;
he is familiar with thc Insti tute crest. Even
thc ~ignboard bearing the inscription ' Indian
Inshtutc of Teehnology, Madras' which for
sometime had been Icft tO stand forIorn on the
humble looking centre road (now blocked by
a ruOst ugly looking primiti ve variety of
c~evaux-de-~s~) has been removed. Thc only
slgnhoards vlslblc threaten that this is I No
Thoroughfare' Cone gate permanently c10sed
no ,tho.r~ughfare anyway, and the
as .it is,
stnp of road vIslble through the other is
anything but inviting), and that • Trespassers
Wlll Be Prosecuted ' . Don't worry, nobody
wlll trespass. They simply pass o Not
through but by.

!S

A very serious accident happened a short
while ago. A Civil Engg. student was walking near the Science and Humanities Block
when he lifted aside a wire to pass by, and
~ound that he was clut~hing a live wire carrymg 440 vohs. He famted, and two of his
friends luckily managed to pull him off by his
clothes. Due to the total absence of any
equipment in our dispensary to meet such an
emergency, the student was taken to Hospital
in t~e Registr~r's car stilI not yet having
regamed conSClQusness. He is now fully
recovered, but this incident should serve to
warn us against such acts of gross negligenee.
It is Iearned from usually reliabie sources
that plans are taking shape to stage the }{amayana in a dramatic version specially prepared
for the U.T. The great Sanskrit epic has
been chosen particularly for the ideaI condi- .
tions offered by OUi" open-air thcatre. The
two scenes which usually create almost unsurmountable technicai difficulties, have found
an ingenious and almost natural solution
there. These two scenes are thc construction
of the bridge to Lanka which will be staged
in the inundated bowl of the theatre. As
has also been le.med, the LLT. monkeys are
already getting registcred as cast far King
Sugriva's army. Thc ' second scene-Sita's
vanishing in the furrow at the end of the
cpic-should also create no technical difficulties whatsoever: the theatre provides ampIe
opportunity for Sita to vanish without Ieaving any trace.
Compastimes feeIs happy to inform its
readers that the Complaint Box to be installed in front of thc Director's office as was
suggested some months ago, is in tbc process

