18

CAMPASTIMES
The Border-Confiict-(CominI/ed)

the ministers to take into consideration the
state of emergency and rcfrain themselves
from exploiting the situation. For Ihe most
part, the words of ' advice' fell on cleaf carso
Speculation bega n to lift it5 heaci in cenain
quarters and looked around for easy money in
terms of huge contracts. Politicians of eertain
variety never 10st an opportunity to fun down
the government and it5 internai and external
policies. During those days, the policy of
Non-alignment carne in for a good dea! of
criticism by interested and disinterested politicians alike. Far ane reason or another,
Prohibition became a target in eertaio quarters as it \Vas ao ideaI in alhers. Thosc who
aclvocated i15 rctention or abolition pointcd,
strangely enough, to the same ideaI of national
welfare. Soaring prices of eS5cntiai commodities could not be fully brought under control
even under national emergency.
Meanwhile, the nation began to focus its attention to the evcnts and cngagements in the
far off no man's Himalayan regions. Ncws,
both rcal and unreliablc, have a pcculiar way
of spreading in India. Even our intelligentsia
is not altogether free from the crcdulitycomplcx. Generally spcaking, many of our
newspapers, with a vi~w to · pushing their
own sale and expanding thcir markct, earne
out with sensational head lines arresting
thereby the attention of the generaI public.
Unfortunately for us, even the carefully
worderi despatches, slowly but surely, revcalcd
that ali was not well with our forces on the
front. There is no question that we bave
some of the best fighting material in the world.
From the time our soldiers withstood the
German onslaught in the battleficlds of
France in the Fìrst World War till they \Vere
able to checkmate the Pakistan aggression in
Kashmir, they had won many laurels. No
one who has known their fighting calibre has
failed to pay high tribute to their tenacity,
,couragc, skill, and teamwork on the baulefield.
F ighting was taking piace both in the
NErA and Ladakh areas al a height of over
14,000 feet.
lt was soon evident that our
forces were not acc1imatized or trained to
fight at such heights and under adverse
clIma tic conditions. MedicaI experts generaIIy agreed ,hat they were not psychologically
or physically trained. As days roUed on, it
became unbearably cold for our jawans.
They were not deliberately or systematically
trained for such an eventuality even as the
German soldiers under Rommel were to face
the privations of a desert warfare. R~ports
from more sources than one revealed that our
soldiers were not adequately clothed or equipp ed wilh modern weapons to meet a most
determined enemy, adequately trained and
equipped, and accustomed to fighting under
all conditions and prepared to stake his life
and all as if they did not matter. The
Chinese carne from colder regions, provided
with ultra-modern weapons and equipment
and having been uscd to çonstant warfare
for more than a generation. Their military
exploits exasperated our generals: I n the
war of nervcs, the scales were against uso
The Chinese had pre-planned an invasion in
alI its detail and had cleverIy eliminatecl
chance as a factor in their military strategy.
Reverses in the NEFA and Ladakh area took
the Indian public by surprise as the nation
\Vas assured, even on the eve of the 'Bordcr
ConRict' that the defence of the country
\Vas in 'safe hands'. Events followed with
lightning rapidity. Thousands of our brave
soldiers were either killed or taken prisoners.
Hundreds of them were wounded or missing.
Our communication lines were thrown out of
gca r. Much valuable equipmcnt was lost to
the enemy. The Himalayas, the impregnable
fortress for untold ages, llave an easy passage
to a ruthless enemy. Victory after vietor)',
the Chinese \Vere now knockin~ at the doors
of Assam. The Gangetic plain lay prostrate
before them.
Even at the very start of this conflict, as
soon as the public got seent of an unfavourable trend at the front, the murmur slowly
gathered momentum and became an open
criticism of government and its defence
policies. Jaya Prakash Narain, Acharya Kri-

palani and C.R. openly clamoured for the
resignation of Shri Krishna Menon as
Minister of Defence. A few wanted to impeach him. Some politici.ms insisted on an
open inquiry to be instituted even in the
midst of war. Others wondered how the
enormous funds aUotted for dcfence were
expended. The policy of nOIl-alignmcnt was
now assailed in no uncertain words. International Communism in generai and Indian
Communism in particular, suffering a staggering blow, was stili unpredictable. Thc
belligerent attitude of Pakistan throughout
this criticai period made the Indian political
sky dark and overcast. Prime Minister
Nehru did not want to change horses at
mid-strearn. But when many of his party
members politely but firmly demandcd thc
resignation of Krishna Menon, he was left
with no other alternative except to part company with his valued and age-long friend .
Krishna Menon himself, sensing the situation,
subrnitted his resignation days before such an
eventuality arose. Prime Minister Nehru
rose to the occasion and ncver rnissed an
opportunity to exhort the nation to stand as
one man to face the tenacious enemy. Soon,
Mr. Chavan was sworn in as Defence
Minister. It appeared that Krishna Menon
\Vas made a scape goat.
When the ' Border Confiict I broke out and
aH was not well with India's defence, Sovtet
Russia took to a polity of cpic silence. Prime
Minister Nehru's one great concern was
regarding the unpredictable policy and course
of action that Soviet Russia might adopt
during those dark days. The conflict was in
its infancy, and it \Vas not an aH-out \Var.
I t was now that the V nited States government under President Kennedy, after scoring
a political and strategie victory in Cuba for
no 10ss of life or property, thundercd on the
side of India irrespective of our internai and
external policies in the past or presento Thc
V.S. Government mcant business and minced
no words in their all-out support in our
war-effort. Days ahead of our request for
war materials and equiprncnt, thc U.S.
Government made a Iist of the most essenti al
war commodities we would need and started
coHecting them for immediate shipment by
air. The Chinese suffercd their first major
defeat in this undaunted stand of the U .S.A.
to help India irrespective of the Costo They
suffòred their second m,jor defeot \Vhen the
Indian Communists altogether ignorcd their
international programme. Therc was· no
communist uprising anywhere in India. The
Chinese met with thcir third major reverse ·
when almost all political parti es and the
people stood solidly behind Nehru in their
determinalion to fight for every square inch
of the home1and. When the Commonwealth
countries under the leadership of Britain
spoke with one voice against the aggressor,
it unnerved him beyond all expcctation.
The Chinese morale \Vas staggering in a
death chance when world public opinion
candemned the Chinese as aggressors and
sympathised with India in her heroic stand o
The visiting German President lost no opportunity in denouncing the Chinese aggression
and promising alI possible belp 10 India.
Finally, tbe continued silence of Russia and
the Russian tacit disapprovaI of the adventurous-expansionist policy of the Mao
Tse-tung regime irritated and demoralised
the Chinese. When Prcmier N ikita Khrushchev's attitude was made clear, thc military
victories of the Chinese became too heavy a
burden for them to bear. Thcy Iost their
nerve. The war was lost. The Chinese
announeed tbe unilateral eCase fire on
I-II-'6z to the uttcr amazement of India and
wonder of the whole world. Thc Colombo
Po\Vers won a: day of glory for thernselves
by their proposals almost acceptable both to
India and China . . Although a fluid state of
affairs still persists in the Ladakh area, the
NEFA area · has now been <:ompletely reoccupied by the Indian forces.
The Gold ContraI arder, modifications in
our Thi(;d PIan, the rising ,prices, the AntiSecessionist Bill, the N .C.C. training ' for alI
Our young men and women in colleges,
various security efforts that are now being
undertaken, the urgency to come to terrns

[February 15th, 1963
with Pakistan, the impending centraI and
state taxes, the measures to gear up our
defence set-up and a wedge in the Communist
camp are some of the by-products of the
, Border-Conflict ). It dragged us into limelight and revealed our strength as welI as our
weakness. It has al so taught us unforgettable
lessons for the future. However, the fact
that China and India are going to be neighbours for endless ages to come ought to steer
these two countries into ways and means that
are in consonance with the dignity of rnan
.nd an all-embracing philosophy of life
transcending temporary gains and flimsy
advantages that have distorted man and
society since the dawn of civilization and
turned man against his brother in an unending circIe of sociaI suicide.

Lecturers' Residence-(COllli11ued)
so vehement on my making the window curtains. O.K ., before fixing the cot and the bed,
let us provide a cO\·er from vicw.'

*

*

*

*

*

*

There are two light points in our bedroom
and after arranging the bedroom my \Vife
wanted to switch on the seeond light as weH to
see how nice her decoratioos looked like.
W"hen she put the second swÌtch on, the bulb
did not burn but the fan started functioning.
'Dear, the fan functions with this switch
on, and I don't see any othcr switch for the
light.'
I looked up, thought for a while, an idea
flashed into my mind. J said, I Try the
fan regulator, dear.'
, You are right,' she crieù, I the Iight
burns as I turn it on.'
I Indefficiency,
negligence and indifference,'
I said, disdainfully.
, Dear, why do you sound so sorrowful ? '
she cocked her cyes for somctime, turned the
regulator from stage x to 4 and tben to con'
and the brightness was gradualIy iocreasing.
'What do you think of this novei idea,
dear ?' I asked ironically.
'Personally I fec i, it is a great idea. Tell
the Superintending .Engincer when yOll meet
him tomorrow that l reany apprceiated this
new deviee . You know, what I mean, dear.
Look up.'
I didn't know what to say. I guess I
looked foolish.
She turned tbe regulator back to 4X' and
the light \Vas just suflicient to revcal her
silhouette; she walkcd towards me with a11
angelic grace and bent aver my foolish face.
, Cheer up, dear, it is going to be marveIlous.'
The next day I told her at lunch time,
'Look here, dearest; the Superintending
Engineer refuses to take credit for your complirnents; it seerns it is a unique feature in our
. house alone and not found elsewhere. On
enquiry I learnt that tbe electrician knew
we were a newly-married couple and hit upon
this brìlliant idea of providing us with the
exact thing you appreciated Iast night. A
very shrewd fellow indeed.
My \Vife felt alike warding him a Nobei
Prize for bis' aesthetic scnse in illumination'.
The next afternoon my neighbour moved in
with his wife and few children. Re is a
veritable cri tic of engineers and an idealist
after perfection. Ralf an hour after his arrivaI
he dashed into my flat opposi te and called
out: 'Doctor, look what a ridiculous thing
they have done. Thcre is no light point for
the second bathroom. l nced not verify it
in your bathroom, and l am sure they
wouldn't have dane it there either '.
Alas, it \Vas true, and thereupon, he gave
vent to his splecn 00 thc constructional
engineers, lack of commonsense in their thought
process, incffective supervision by indifferent
people and the like. After he left, I turned
to my wife.
, Don't you think, dear, my friend is not
. romantic enough to appreciate one of the
bathrooms withou( light. It give5 you a
wonderful choice. You can take a bath in one
bathroom with lights on and for a change get
into the other and have a bath without light '.
'My comprehension fails here. Why not
they give us a light point in the bathroom
and lcave it to us to have the Iight on or
not as our moods permitted ? '

