February 15th, 1963]

CAMPASTIMES

'Look here. You are trying to question
the very fundamentals. Why should there be
twa bathrooms then? Don't you see, dear,
when there are twa bathrooms arre should be
with a light and the othet without? Accord.ihg to your way of thinking one bathroom
would be sufficicnt. You Bee, dear, you are
not bright today. Come on, let us forget it'.
M y neighbour I hotheaded as he was, 10st
no time in sending a strongly worded letter
to thc authorities bringing their pointed
attcntion to this major defect in planning.
Lo and behold, the next day five workers
marched into aUI apartment and startcd
digging a square hale on the wall between
the lavatory and tbe bathIoam.
I What is the big idea? '
'I don't know myself, dearest. Let Us
wait and see. l
Slowly it dawned on me that what they
were up to \Vas to make the lavatory light
illuminate the bathroom through the square
hole on the waH in between.
'Dea r, I am afraid, there is a flaw in thc
idea. Technically speaking, there should not
be any airpassage between the lavatory and the
bathroom. When one is in use, the other
cannot be used '.
, You have a point there, dear'.
Accordingly I told my neighbour of this
new problem and, having a number of children,
he appreciatcd this point of view and shot
off anothcr letter to the cngineer.
The next day five more workers trooped
in with ladder, cement etc., and gave a decent
form and shape to the square. We thought
the sccond letter had no effect. But on thc
third day five more men walked in and fixed
a gl'S8 and closed the hole. Now there could
be light w1thout odou r.
, I \Vant to ask you something .'
'Yes, dear ' .
I Don't think I am also criticising engineers.
I am just curious, th\t is alI. Instead of
ali this botheration, they could have drilled a
small hole, pulled a \Vire from the verandah
and given us a light. Don't you fecI it would
bavc been better that way ? '
'You are not to be blamed dear. You ought
to have had smattering of your husband's
knowledge of economics. Let me teach you
something at least today. You see; according
to your method, it would have meant employmcnt far a single worker for a single day. Now
what did you see? Five workers were employed for three days aDd that means 15
workers in aH for purposes of comparison.
Imagine this being done to ali /lats. The
earnings of these workers will be spent in consumption goods; there will be greater demand
for consumpuon goods; more consumption
good wiU be produced ; more men \ViU be employedto produce eonsumptiongoods; more employrnent rnr ans more payment in the form of
wages; again more spending on consumption
goods and so 00, ad infinitum. You see thc
seemingly wasteful expenditure leads to
increase in national incorne and elimination of
un-employment. It is with this great idea
in mind that the late Lord Keynes, the master
brain of England in the thirties, suggested
that .if you have no work to give to the unemployed, ask them to dig holes and fili them
up again and pay them for this activity'.
, Didn't )lou telI me, dear, that economics is
commonsense crystallised' ?'
e What do you mean ?'
, Don't be angry dear. Your economics is
always beyond me '.

*

*

*

The fifth day dawned on us, and at 9 a.m.
four e1ectricians carne into our housc and asked
for our permission to attend to some electrical
installations connecting the servants quarters
with the electric main in our house. Quite
to my purpose they started digging a hole, this
time on the floor at the edge of the rear
verandah, and thc whole block \Vas reverberating with deafer,ing noise.
e What are they digging in there fOf, d-a-rl-i-n-g ?' shouted my wife into my ears.
I signalled the fellows to stop and repeated
the questiono
e I t is j ust to Connect the wiring in your
servant's quarter with your main.'
(It has been done already. There was
light there last night.'

'Yes, sir, but it was alI \YTong.'

, AlI wrong ? '
I Ves, siI.
You see, sir, \Ve connected each
one of the flats in this block to each one of
the servant quarters according to an arder
we were asked to follow. The people in
charge of numbering the servants' quarters
followed a different order. So we have been
asked to alter the connections and adhere to
their order of numbering.'
I burst out laughing at the incrediblc situation. 'Look here, boys j the easiest way out
of this muddle is to renumber the servants'
quarters the way electrical cnnnections have
been given.'
I No siro
Those people have refused to do
it.'
I got wild and said, ' What if I refused
perrnission to dig in here ? '
'Dear' intervened my wife, e it can't be as
bad as ali that. Why not you make further
enquiries and find out? '
I went out and asked a supervisor and got
the wiser; I carne back to explain to my
wife, I The story runs like this, dearest.
Each Lecturer's ilat has a water-tank from
which water should go to the servants' quarters attached to it. The numbering has been
done according to the arder of the water
connections. Electric connections have been
done differently. It is simple case of lack of
co.;ordination between these two departments
in our gigantic organization. That is all,
dearest.'
I So,
after all, it was not as bad as we
thought it was.'
The digging went on with its devastating
fury for two full days.

*

*

*

Dido't you say that in Asst. Professors'
quarters there are five fans, and clectric
buzzer besides a few other additional fittings?
You are an Assistant Professor, and when
you are allotted a lecturer's apartment they
should at least provide us with the facilities
you are entitled. '
• Wh Y do you wan t thern, dear ?' Are not
four fans adequate for you?
e YOli see, this big halllooks barren with a
single fan . An additional fan with a wash
basin at the corner wiU help us convert that
portion into a beautiful dining haH. Don't
you think so ? '
, I do, dear. But you see, dear, the authoriti es feel that when we will be asked to
move out to Asst. Professors' quarters they
don't want to dismantle anything from tbc
CI quarters for fear of creating a sort of an
ili-feeling toward the incorning Lecturers.'
'It is really nice of them to think so. I
do really appreciate it; but what about the
present Assistant Professors' quarters now
allatted to the German foreman with a11 the
fine furniture and posh fittings? Do you
think, dear, that I can look fonvard to al1
thc luxury when . we move inta one such
quarter when the Germans move out? K eep
it in mind ; )'OU should use your influence to
get into ane such building. I would love to
live in an air-conditioned bedroam during
summer.'
e There is logic in your expcctation, dear,
but unfortunately logic is not always possible
in real life. You have to Iearn to live with
inconsistencies which are oftentimes less
logical than logical.'
( I don't see eye to eye wÌth you, dear.'
I O.K. dear, let us agree to disagree
on the
point for the presento Sometime I may be
able to prove it.'

*

*

*

It was ten days since we had movcd in, and
after endless days of constant disturbance by
one party or other, there seemed to be lull in
the intruding activity. The floor was polished,
the kitchen repaired, the domes fixed to
lights, and I even carried out my wife's suggestion to fix a blue light bulb for our bedrooro beside the wbite bulb operated by the
fan regulatoT.
.
The night advanced on us quite early in
the evening since the sky was overcast and at
8-30 rain carne pouring down in torrents.
We ate early and \Vere relaxing in the snug
comfort of our living room. The weather
\Vas ideaI to turn in far the night.
I Darling,'
cooed my wife, 'it looks our

I~

honeymoon starts only today. Don't you feeI
the thrill when the elcments are furious l '
, I do. I am in my elements, dear.'
We stood enjoying the bcauty of our bedroom.
, Blue light or wbite light, dear ? '
Till we fully cover our windows with the
curtains and shutters, no light, please.'
'As you please, dear. Since you wanted
me to fix the blue light, I thought you might
be intcrested.'
I I am not so sure about the angle
depression from the third floor apposite to our
floor. '
'Why not we keep tbe light on this night
and ask my friend tomorro\V, dear ? '
e Oh, shut up ! '
'It is the way of logic, my dear, if you
don't mind.'
, You look very cute. Do you know ?)
, Oh, shut up.'

*

*

*

*

*

*

The next morning my wife thought she
should write to her parents of the glorious
life she is having with me in the l.l.T.
campus.
'Darling, I have some dlfficulty in giving
them the correct address. All along they
wrote to me to Our Adyar address. Now it
has come to LLT. You know, ali these days
I have not bothered much to know what
these letters really stood foro I have something on my mind, but I am not sure I am
right.'
I What have you got on your mind, dear ? '
'Institute of Indial} Technology . . Am I
Wrong? '
'Do yOfi know, dear, you are right for
once! you are brilliant !! How is that it
didn't strike me at ali I l.l.T.-Institute of
Indian Technology. How did you get it,
dear?'
.
'You kno\V, you told me that this is olle of
the institutions of national importance, and
naturally I thought it should be devoting
itself to the development of Indian TecMology in Free India.'
, Your logic is absolutely fiawless ! dear ! !l'
The last night of our short honeymoon.
The moon \Vas full in ali her splendour. Putting thc lights oH we went to bed enjoying
the moonbearns peeping through our windows.
I presume the glass windoWs, the openness of
the bedroom and the like have marred my
wife's idea of privacy in her bedroom.
I Darling.'
'Yes, dear.'
I Don't you get a little uneasy with the feeling that you are being watched aH around ?'
, That is not the way to look at it, dear.
Are not stolen kisses thousand times sweeter
than safe one ? J
'I shovldn't flatter you. You know no
one can beat you in explaining away things
like that.'
'Don't you think dear, we should be
thankful to those who have provided us with
atmosphere of Constant thrill and excitement
that goes \Vith stolen kisses ? '
'Whom should we be thankful to darling? '
I Let us thank on this full-moon night, the
one who has conceived of this flat system for
I.I.T. and the other who has given us thc
glass windows ! '
Amen.

I Importune. . .
E.

s.

BHAGIRATHA

RAO

These roses l've brought are thine,
My lady, for ever and ever thine!
Am I, my poor self, more to thee,
No Sweeter air nor smell
Can carry as much as these
The lofty words I have to tell
Thy wandering memory,
Ever busy with vivaceous spree
I beg to say, to pray, to praise,
Of my lave, for yours, of your beauty
Denying even that of a dainty.
I want, I see, I \Vai t, I hope
Do not my lady make the dupeReject my love, my soul, my strife.
Precious indeed for an ideal life.

