EDLINE

We are back again i

After what seems to be a lifetime, we have

been able to compile this second issue. Our attempts at making Campastimes
more frequent were stymied by sheer lack ol articles - seems like the general
draught situation prevailing in the state got to us also. This is the price
we have to pay for attempting to maintain some standard and trying to
provide light and entertaining reading. Bringing out half a dozen issues would
silence those complaining about its frequency but we strongly feel that we
will be doing more harm than good that way. We'll surely keep up our attempts at bringing out more issues without compromising on the quality. We
hope that our task will be made easier by more active response from you
than has been exhibited so far. Some of you did come up to contribute,
but one must realize that not all articles can be published and more importantly, it is impossible for us to trace out the author of an unpublished article
and

return

it

to

him.

Of

course, the

students

themselves can collect

their

manuscripts, published or unpublished, from us.

With the arrival of the Siemens Computer, the getting up early,
standing

in

line

to get a terminal, routine will become a part of

history.

Enthu computing beginners will no longer be put off by the daunting task
of

punching cards. In fact

the enthu and gusto with which the Siemens ter-

minals are being attacked by llTians prompted us to run (pun intended) an
article on Siemens.
in this connection, another thing which strikes us is the umpteen
restrictions placed on the use of the 'n' PCs scattered all over the institute
in various departments.

The result is their gross underutilization. The posses—

siveness that the labs exhibit over these ‘coveted‘ machines is quite depres—
sing. Some of us have even been rebufled with answers like: “When any of
our lab students go to other labs, they aren't given-any access. So we are
sorry, but

this

machine

against whatever

our lIT

is

only

for our lab guys."

stands for;

that

sources for producing maximum results 1

there

Now

should

isn't this blatantly

be sharing of all

re-

It is indeed a sad commentary

