23

TALL STORIES

Tall men are a pitiable lot.

One temperamental gene

decides to confer this attitude on a select few and they are
doomed for life.

Take myself - with all my 72” — for example.

Add to this

a harmless looking PTC bus and mix a pinch of my stubborn idiocy
on my insistence on travelling by it - and what do you get?
A tragi-comic melodrama which any Bombay producer would lap up
with joyful

glee.

Let me explain.

The first thing that strikes you - literally - as you
enter the bus is the roof !

You are forced to stand with your

head crouched and at this point you make an important discovery
on population averages.

You discover that the average Indian

height is such that when a person stands close to you, as in a
crowded bus, his hair just manages to tickle your nose

!

Your twist your head to keep off the strong South Indian
Coconut Oil Odour and are about to gulp in a breath of fresh air
when you feel something crawling up your leg !

With visions of

elves, goblins and boa constrictors you glance down furtively
only to find your co—passengers 3-year old hanging on to your
leg for support and grinning impishly up at you

!

with a few

none too gentle thrusts of the knee you manage to push him away
and dive for the empty seat which has just been vacated.
You find that the leg space isn t enough and that you are
forced to haul up your legs and sit awkwardly.

You also earn a

disapproving-what-is-this-younger generation -coming-to look
from the elderly gentleman next seat‘

At this point the ticket

collector arrives and insists on ‘change’.
your dismay, that

You discover. to

‘change’ is in the back pocket of your tight

jeans and you are forced to stand up and go through the

cali¢henicsiof unwinding yourself to obtain it.
In the meanwhile, a smart alec has grabbed your seat and
you drop the

change

down in frustration.

Now bending yourself

all 6'0” down is bad enough, but having to do so in a crowded
bus and among trampling

feet, looking for a small coin, can

make you wish you were in hell.

