8

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

have let fly such a volley of interesting words that it has left
by standers struck and amazed at the effectiveness of the
language you employ I That is one up for keys.
One of my friends returned to his room after a late night
and coming back found that he could not lay his hands on his
flat key. After searching his pockets and racking his brains,
while half asleep, he almost woke up the whole neighbourhood
by his frantic and rather noisy efforts to open the door. By this
time some cautious neighbour had put in a call to the police and
the next thing he knew he had got himself a nice and comfortable bed in the cooler on charges of house breaking I It was
next morning before he convinced- the officials of his bonafides
and got back. After a few days came a bombshell. His key
was found in the lining of his coat having slipped through a
torn coat pocket I
Some peopl~ believe that single keys are lost easily so why
not put them in a bunch and keep them safe? AU very well but
unfortunately the keys don't share that opinion: You miss the
whole bunch and are in worse trouble. In fact they are more
devastating when together than when they are single for after
all unity is strength.
An opposite view prevails among some people who say that
since you are going to lose keys anyway why not lose them one
by one and keep some of them longer. This is quite fatal too.
If you lose your car key, you find you cannot get in. Since your
house key is inside the car, you cannot get into the house and
since the safe key"is inside the house you cannot open the safe I
sine,e the safe cannot be opened yeu cannot get the duplicate car
keys t see t

Keys l1ave a habit of getting lost at the most uncomfortable
moments. If they wouldn't then I don't think one could have
found so many boys standing at the Institute gate and cursing
with all their eloquence (in the pre-bus days) bemoaning the
loss of their cycle keys. The prospect of a 2 mile walk at
lO'O'clock at night is not patticularly welcome and all for a key.

