11

FOURTH A,NNU AL 1jtUMBER

The Ame-fiean's and the Russian's disbelief at the Sino-Indian
border war may look strange to us, but a close examination will
show that it is odd that, China should have attacked India, of all
countries. Weren't we the first to recognize the Communist
Government in Peking? Wasn't it India who, year after year,
brought forth resolutions at the U.N. General Assembly to seat
Red China? Wasn't it India who advocated China's pal·ticipation
in the disarmament conferences? Wasn't it Nehru who ridiculed the" two-China theory"? Then why is it that Mao attacked
'us? A closer and dispassionate exmination of the problem will
reveal fivo factors which impelled the Chinese to invade Indian
territory.

*

*

*

*

The first factor that has to be taken into consideration
is the fact that China is a nation of 7,50,000,000 people-one
fourth of the world's entire population. And the land they
occupy covers hardly of the wOI'ld's dry space. The Chinese
not only live in crowded cities and villages, but have also built
houses in deserts and finally in areas yearly rampaged by rivers
changing courses (e.g. Yangtze-Kiang and Hwang Ho) and
by storms, draughts etc. Even then, the Chinese have found
that they do not have enough space to live in whereas beside
them are countl'ies like the Soviet Union where land is so abundant that prizes are offered every year to those women who
produce the maximum number of children. So what is the
course left open to the Chinese? Grab some of the neighbour's
territory.
To expand the country has been the basic policy of all
Chinese rulers from time immemorial. Necessity is the mother
of invention, and the necessity for more land has provoked the
Chinese to invent new claims to different lands. Originally,
China consisted only of what is now called "China Proper".
The territories of Tibet, Sinkiang, Manchuria and Inner Mongolia
were not part of China. But, by and by China incorporated
them all into herself. However, the need for more land did not

