12

INDIAN INSTI'fUTE 01f~ 'l'E:::HNOtOJt"~ MADRAS

end, for the simple reason that as more land was added, the
population increased too.
The cl&ims of the Chinese have gone much beyond what
they control now. In 1875-77, they fought to retain Turkistan
under their contro1. They faced war with France for suzerainty
over Tongquin, and nearly entered into one with Hussia over
the possession of Kuldja. It would interest readers to know that
they once broke off relations with Gn'at Britain for the latter
refused to concede their demand for 8uzer<l.inty over Burma (then
a part of India) !
All the rulers of China, irrespective of ideology, have been
expansionists. Before 1911, China was ruled by kings who used
to send their armies to conquer neighbouring countries. They
had a beautiful way of advancing their territorial claims. They
forced their weaker neighbours to send presents to the Emperor.
The Chinese called these presents as "tl'ibuks" and therefore
the nations sending them as "tributory nations" -a synonym
for colonies. ThE:' next-step was to claim .. suzerainty" over" tributory nations" and the final one to annex their territory (For
details, please refer "History of Modern Times" by C. D. M.
Ketelby in which it is described how England was also classified
as a "tributory nation" in the Chinese Gazette because King
George 'III had sent a present to the Empel'Or).
In 1911, a Republican revolution took place in China and Sun
Yat Sen's Government replaced the Emperor. Sun Yat Sen was
revolutionary in his outlook on all questions except one-expansionism. His successor,- Chiang Kai SItek, discarded all his
policies but one-expansionism. Then came the Communist
revolution in 1949. Mao Tse Tung attacked Chiang, denounced
him, condemned his men and then trampled under his shoes all
his policies, but one-expansionism. Both Mao and Chiang agree
wholeheartedly on onE' (and only one) question-the legitimacy of
China's claims to neighboul'ing lands, including Ladakh and
NEFA. The Kuomintang regime, in a note to the United States
protesting against her recognition of the McMahon Line, declares
that "on this question of national frontier, all ChinE'se stand

