13

FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

united as a nation ". The Chinese in Macao, Malaya, India,
Indonesia, Hongkong-in fact, all Chinese allover the world
have given support to Peking's claims. D. R. Rajagopal of the
Express News Service" reports that an American correspondent
in Honkgong has been forbidden by his Chinese wife even the
mere mention of the McMahon Line "unless she says" you
want the Sino-Indian horder dispute running through our house ...
II

tI

*

if

If Ohina's policies have all along been expansionist, then why
is it that the Chinese did not attack us while the Emperors ruled
them, or whil-e Sun Yat Sen 01' Chiang Kai Shek was at the
helm of affairs? Why was it left to Mao to break the bond of
friendship that connected these two countries for over 2000 years?
The answer is simple. An imperialist nation, in ol'der to be
successful in its territorial adventures, must not only have a.
strong and united people behind it, but also a strong and efficient
Government to lead and direct a strong and brave army. In the
last few decades before the Oommunist revolution, the Chine~e
had no Government worth the name, and no army of soldiers
baving even a tinge of bravery or sacrifice in their blood. To put
it metaphorically, the Chinese lion was sleeping. I1l did open its
eyes for a short while when Sun Yat Sen took over power, but
went int(' a cosy nap again when Chiang became Premier. It
was left to Mao Tse Tung to organize the" People's Liberation
Army" -said to be the most disciplined army in the world.
And with .the creation of a strong Government fand a strong
army, the Chinese once again gave thought to their so far latent
but basic idea-that of expansionism.

But tbis time the idea of expansionism was combined with
and aggravated by two more equally powerful impulses-nationalism and hurt pride. 'The Ohinese are proud, nationalistic and
sophisticated by nature. But for over 300 years, they bad been
suppressed and ruled by foreigners. They had experienced perbaps the bitterest taste of Western colonialism-Portugese

