14

INDIAN INSTITUTE Ol!' TCElINOLOGY, MAD~AS

Macao and British Hongkong are still its remnants. These
foreigners had lured the Chinese to sleep by making opium
available at cheap rates, and had exploited the country's riches
to the maximum extent possible.
How easy it was for Mao to go round his people, reminding
them of the atrocities committed on them, and consequently
instilling in them the worst hatred for foreigners! How simple
it was for him to make them believe that Tibet and the McMahon
Line were creations of British imperialism! Theil' sense of nationalism and pride was thus converted into SUPPOl't for Mao's policy
of expansionism. The Ohinese realized that they must have their
rightful place in the world. Yes, the sleeping lion had awoken.
This lion could pel'haJ)s have been tamed in the initial stages
by admitting it into the United Nations. But the U. S.-supported
and assisted actively by Chiang-refused to accept the hard faot
that one fourth of the world's population had turned Red. So
China was kept out of the society of nations.

If a little, weak man is kept out of society, he may be able
to do nothing but protest mildly, but not so in the case of a huge,
big, strong giant. China's position in the society of nations is
exactly similar to the latter. Chinese pride had been trod upon
and crushed for 300 years. And now, even though she was a free
nation with a powerful Government, she was being ignored.
This was more than what the proud Chinese could bear. How
they asked, could an organisation which did not represent one
fouth of the world's population be called a "world body" 'I
So Mao decided that he must make his presence felt in such
a way that others dare not ignore his country again. Which was
the best way to make his 'presence felt? Obviously by sparking
off international conflicts, by disputing existing borders. And
to aid him were the innumerable claims made by his predecessors
-including Ohiang-to adjoining land.
So the lion, now wide awake. turned its head to and fro in
order to find hot spots to create trouble. To its east was Formosa.
well guarded by the U.S. Seventh Fleet, so it could do nothing but

