16

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF 'l'ECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

ment got to know of it and within a few hours of his reaching
the Indian border.

3. The CI~inese Govel'nmenfs ac('usation that the Dalai
Lama was "under duress" and their allegation the revolt in
Tibet was inspired by " Indian reactionaries".
The Chinese, there is no doubt, wanted to -implement
Socialist reforms in Tibet-and the Dalai Lama claims he has no
objections to these reforms. Then why is it that he did not
want to "go back to Tibet as early as in 1956 '? The Dalai Lama
himself gave the answer when he said that millions of mainland
Chinese were encouraged to settle down in Tibet. Mao had
Ilot oecnpied Tibet in order to attend to the development of
its highly baekw'al'd people. Being preoc.cnpied with Chi11a:6
own problems, he had no time for that. He had done so to find
l.\1l outlet for China's surging population.
The -second fact proves that the Chinese watched the
Dalai Lama m(iVe from Lhasa to the Indian border. Otherwise it
would not have been possible for them to report his movement
so accurately and so soon. Why they so deliberately allowed
him to slip away is a mystery which can ,be solved only on
making the assumption that they were all along under the impression tha~ the Dalai Lama was supporting them and that the
rebels were compelling him to movr along with them to India.
Tbi's assumption is confirmed by the fact that they repeatedly
reported the Dalai Lama to be moving "under duress" to
India.
Perhaps the Chinese expected the Dalai Lama to make a
statement supporting them and condemning the l'€'b€!llion in
Bomdila. This would have acted as a oTushing blow to the
Khampas. When the Dalai Lama did something quite the
opposite, the Chinese got a rude shock. However, they were
too proud to imagine that they were wrong in aSfluming the
Dalai Lama's friendship, Instead, they pinned all the blame on
the Indian official who read out the Dalai Lama's statement.
The abO"\'8 theory is given further confirmation by the fact
that the Dalai Lama is still respected in Tibet, his pietme still

