FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

mountains and valleys "in India, the seas, plains, hills, riveTs, the
climate, wind, forests, fields, plants, animals and countless other
geographical factors have tremendously influenced the growth and
development of life and thought of India.
Pre-EIistoric India :-This is a most neglectEd period of Indian
history. Most oftEn, Indian history starts with the Aryan invasion
of India, the Persian invasion of India, the Vedic period, the
Kingdom of Magadha, the rise of Jainism and Buddhism, and
lately deals with the archaelogical discoveries at Harappa and
Mahenjo-dal'o. Sometimes, one comes across a passing reference to
Dravidian civilization and culture. Indian history starts abruptly,
completely ignoring historical developments thousands of years
preceding the civilization and culture portraYEd in the above
mentionEd discoveries. Sir John Marshall emphatically states
that long before the Aryans were ever heard of, the people of
Indi~ enjoyed a civilization, in some respects superior to that of
Ancient Egypt or Mesopotamia. These discoveries "exhibit the
Indian peoples of the fourth and third millenia B. C. in possession
of a highly developed culture in which no vestige of Indo-Aryan
influence is to be found." According to the Hev. Father Heras,
the builders of such a wonderful civilization were the Dravidians
or the Proto-Dravidans as the first known inhabitants of India
have come to be called now. Archaelogical excavations throughout India and profound researches by unbiased scholars will bring.
to light this buried history of India for thousands of years.
Historical Bias. to Historical events in N01'th India :-Indian
history is mostly North-Indian l1istory, and in any history of
India, the South is given at best only a step-motherly treatment.
This valid criticism can be substantiated by going through any
text book on Indian history. Out of 100 pages, nearly 80 pages or
more are devoted to North Indian history, and less than 20 are
devoted for South Indian history for a survey of development in
the South. This unconscious emphasis on North Indian history is
largely due to the political predominance of the North over the
South. In the rewriting of Indian history, this one-sided view
should recede to the hackground.

