2&

INDIAN INSTITUTE Ol? TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

history as expressed in their daily lif0, in the oorporate effort they
make, the social and religious movements that touoh and transform their life, and above all, the fortunes that change and mould
their oharacter, is altogether left out. Our religious and political
bias has greatly minimised our historical perspective. The net
result is that our histories abound in dates and places and leave
out the life of the people as a whole.
An Outsider's 'twde1'sianditzg oj Indian history:-What is the
iIl1pression of an European or American about Indian history" He
must have heard about the caste system; the snakes, scorpions,
lions, tigers and elephants; the temples, the Taj Mahal and ·the
Ajanta and Ellora caves; th0 l'eligions, Brahmins and the untouchabIes; and some of the great personalities like the Buddha, Asoka,
Akbar, Gandhi and Nehru. No doubt, the purple wealth of the
Maharajahs and the pinching poverty of the people might have
once arrested their attention. Some of our social evils, our helpless economic plight and the condition of our womanhood might
have come in for their attention. A few of them might have read
about Kalidasa and his Shakuntala.· Our political serfdom for
ages and the innumerable languages and dialects have been given
wide pUblicity. That we have been socially and politioally disunited for ages, and that we have been a nation of poor people
subjected to countless beliefs, superstitions and ignorance might
have been broadoast far and wide. Vincent Smith, a famous
historian of India, wrote years ago, "The ancient history of India
is incomplete without a full investigation of the high degree of
civilization extant in India long before the nomadic Aryan tribes
penetrated into her plains." According to him, "Kt,ral taught
ethical doctrine of singular beauty and purity, which cannot, so
far as I know, be equalled in the Sanskrit literature of the North."
People in the North, let alone the foreigners, would find it difficult
to believe that a Pandisn King, ruling in Matiurai, sent a mission
to Caesar Au gustus in Rome over thousands of miles of land and
sea, and that a Roman community was once living peacefully in
the city of Madurai before Clu'ist was born. But very little of
these significant developments is known to the outside world. In
the re-writing of Indian hist.ol'Y. a balanced history of India, with-

