FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

27

certai.n rdgisters and smiled viciously. Then it wrote a long
sermon somewhat to this effect.
II Expenditure
of Rupees fifty thousand on the
purchase of cos~ly rugs is pl'ima facie more than the
occasion demanded. The Officer did not call for ope~
tenders by advel'~iseI11ent but purchased them from an
ex-Maharaja by direct negotiation. He had not apparently exercised the same vigilance in respect of expenditure fl'om Public funds, as a person of ordinary
prudence would exercise in respect of his own money.
He has thus offended against the long recognised
standards of financial propriety."

Actually the bloodhound was at my throat: I would have
been overpowered but for the ti.mely assistance of oertain
practical men who realised the impracticability of such principles,
especially at this critical stage of our country's progress, where
speed is the essence of all work. Did the bloodhound mean that
we should waste our precious time in calling for tenders and
follow that circuitous procedure in the vai.n search for that
elusive thing, economy. And what about our fundl.\mental rights
guaranteed to us by the constitution-the freedom of aotion, to
spend as we choose, unfettered by the choking rules and regulations ~ Again what a meaningless comparison between public
funds and our own money ~ Have we any moneY,left with u~ at
a.ll, after all the deductions for provident fund, insurance etc.
How can we spend the little left with us lavishly? Can we
afford even one single Camel-hair rug'~ Public funds are on the
other hand so vast. Why should we restrict the expenditure
therefrom and exhibit our niggardliness to foreign tou~ists ~
Strangely enough, all these do not appeal to the bloodhound I
" Why do you W01'l'y yourself about all these now, my dear?
It is all over now, I think" Leala interrupted .
.. Not at all" continued Sundar "It had bit me and the
wound is just healing, when again it has renewed its attacksthis time more fiercely-one, on the purchase of the travelling

