28

INDtAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; MADRAS

gf.>ntry which, however. could not travel on the steep slopes and,
therefore, failed to work and the other, on the power house building, which collapsed immediately after constructioD, due to the
treacherous soil-All these I can brush aside; but when it is a
question of attack on my own slender pU1'se~wel1, this is the last
straw. When I fell ill last year, I had to go to my doctor a
number of times in my car and I spent a lot on petrol. My diet
all througb the period was only HOl'licks and fruits. On petrol
and diet alone I have spent about Rs. 1,234/- but this amount has
been oompletely disallowed as inadmissible. Weare often told
that we are living in a Welfare State. Is it the way in which
our welfare should be safeguarded? This is a fit case to be taken
to court. It is saddening the way in whioh an Officer who has
been sweating for 7 hour~ a day for the State is treated.
Perhaps, you want to say that in western countries people work
for seventy hOllrs a week. But why should you forget the difference iu the conditions obtaining in these countries? If every
man in India should work for 70 hours a week, what will
happen to the ever.increasing number of educated and qualified
young men? Should we rob them of their livelihood by ourselvt's
overworking and thus refusing to provide oppntunities for their
employment? "
Sundar was f.>xhatlsted and could not talk any more. Leela
saw how wrong her husband was but she did not want to tell him
so at that time. She knew that audit is not a bloodhound, but
just a watchdog-the watchful conscience ever on the alert to
warn us against Satan who is always round the corDer to tempt
us-the conscience ihat prompts us to hard and sincere workunceasing work, which alone keeps the mind away from all mis·
chief. Truly has it been said in the Gita "~ever desist from
work and never work for fruit- the selfish fruit".
Whatever may be the views of that great author, one's wife,
just like audit, is not an evil-and definitely not an unnecessary

evil: but both are certainly the gentle, yet, effective, monitors of
the erring man!

