On Neutrality
T. Y. G. KriJhnamurlhy cl D. B. Venkateswaralu

The onE' topic that has been much discussed and criticised
after the Chinese aggression is India's Foreign Policy. People
have been voicing bittE'l' criticism against the policy of nonalignment a.nd have been urging the government to abandon a
policy that has been approved by the country unanimously for the
past fifteen years. The change, they say, should come in our
political outlook since India had been attacked unscrupulously
by a country which does not seek to instal democratic ways on its
own mainland. So, according to them, in order to preserve the
freedom as well as the privileges gained by democraoy, we must
join the western camp which is a staunch supporter of democratic
nations. Military alliance with the "\Vestern powel'S, they argue,
would strengthen our defence and make Ohina shrink from
committing any aggrcesive activity.
As it seems, the foreign policy of this country has been much
wrongly assessed by even those who are supposed to be political
geniuses in their own country. The characteristic of the policy
is neutrality, that is to say non-association with either the
communist bloc or with the Western powers. It implies nonparticipation in-military alliances, since it is believed that such 80p&l'ticipation would give the allies an influence over major policy
decisions. Therefore it will be deal' that independence of thought
and judgment of the nation as a whole would be much affected,
harm("d and influenced by following a policy other than neutrality.
Neutrality preserves the country's freedom in every aspect. It
enables a Government to judge between right and wrong,
between an aggressor and an aggressed, between justice and
injustice, between the harming and the harmed. A neutral
country ·is not obliged to anybody so that its policies may be
influenced in their outlook. In short, neutral policy enables a
country to keep its eyes wide open by not letting somebody blindfold it, so that the events that take place in the world can be

