FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

41

judged with a clear conscience and uninfluenced mind. Alliance
to some country is apt to make a puppet of us 80 that we could be
utilised in any sort of manner. We see many countries that are
aligned, being led by the nose by the major powers. Take for
instance a Hungary, a Czekoslovakia or a Philippines. The
Foreign Policy of Hungary and Czekoslovakia is absolutely the
same, it being drawn up by premier Krushchev. The Foreign
Policy of the Philippines is in no way different from that of
America on any major political issue. Even though Britain
knows pretty well that it was with America's assistance antiCastro activities were gaining ground, it could not condemn its
big brother. U. S. A. disapproved the invasion of Suez by Britain
and France unofficially, but it could not come out into the open
with a clear denial of the same. This country which is the most
advertised democracy in the world, had had to forgo ~ome of its
freedom of expression due to its obligation to Great Britain.
When the U-2 incident took place Pakistan and Japan never
knew that the plane took off from their land for spying, which
amounts to saying that they had bartel'ad some of their sovereignty in ol'del' to ensure their so called independence. For after
all what is independence, unless you are independent without
having any strings attached? Defence of this type should not be
envied. It is in the best interests of the country that it should
follow a neutral policy where neutrality does not mean keeping
neutral on maje,r issues, but which means clear judgement on
major issues without being pushed hither and thither by someone.
India has been, on the world political scene for over 15 years.
a neutral country. On many an occasion when the big powers
seemed to be absolutely at logger-heads, India in the role of a
mediator, did its level best to avoid many a world crisis. In its
fifteen yea.rs of independence India had always been striving t~
strike a conciliatory tone between the rival blocs, the results of
which w() are able to see today. A world war which seemed
imminent over the Cuban crisis could be avoided due to the
compromising attitude shown by both U. S. A. and U.S.S.R., the
seeds of which were sown by India long back. Wise and farseeing
as it is in its outlook, this policy of non-alignment has captivated

