42

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

quite a few newly emergent nations. The fact that almost all
Afro-Asian countries are neutral bears eloquent testimony
to the fact that this policy is being approved by the thinkers
of the world. Moreover this policy has helped India to
build up a reputation that is amazing. We have been seeking
the goodwill of everybody without reservation: And this has
helped us in a positive way. The very fact that both the communist countries as well as the western countries have been eager
to play their part in the countl·y's economic development shows
that our foreign poiey is a success. The establie.hment of peace
in the world community of nations could only be achieved if, and
only if, the rattlh1 g of the bwords by the fear-ridden big powers
is stopped witI1 the help of neutral countries.
People bad been linking Chinese aggression with India's
foreign-policy, citing it as an example for its outdatedness. It is
-absolutely inoonceivable that there should be any connection at
all bet-","een our foreign policy and the invasion by China. If our
-defence lines fail to hold on to their positions. it is not because
India's foreign policy is bad, but because they were little supplied
with modern equipment and ammunition. Hence the blame
should be placed on the oountl'Y's intelligence and its defence
ministry. Having three foes on our threshold if the Defence
Minister faUs to recognise the importance of modernising the
army, it would be the country'oS unfortunate fate to have him in
office. It is illogical to say that becasuse India is neutral, China
attack-ed India, in view of the fact that many neutral countries
surrounding China had been spared of the treatment. The main
reason for the aggression might have been to show to the world
that China is the leader of Asia and also that India was an
Amel'ican Satellite. By allowing ourselves to give up our
foreign policy we involuntarily serve the purpose of Ohina. Owing
to the respect that India has gained abroad and the correctness of
its argument, not less than forty countries have rallied l'oWld to
support India. Is this not a fruit of neutrality?
It is hoped that the detailed way the foreign policy of the
country has been discussed here would remove anr misapprehensions that might have crept into the read~rs' mind during
these stOl'IDY days of national emergency -Jai Hind.

