44

INDIAN INSTITUTE

()}j'

TEOHNOLOGY, MADRAS

fell before the fury of Gilchrist and Hall:' He was a national
hero within a matter of days.
With such a splendid showing behind him, Borde was an
automatic choice for the Engish tour that followed. He shone in
the Tests as a batsman, with sterling knocks of 41 runs at Leeds,
75 at Manchester and another 75 at the Oval, while topping more
than a thousand runs in first class matches. He also took 72
wickets though the opportunities he had with the ball were
limited and it was the unanimous opinion of English cricket
critics that BOl'<le should have been used more as a leg-spinner for
he, like Subash Gupte, could conceal a googly in his bag of legbreaks, as indeed he proved in the match against Kent of Cowdrey
f.ame by taking five wickets in each innings and helping the
Ind,jans to win handsomely by eight wickets.
Borde continued his .. feud" with the Englishmen, when TEd
Dexter and his band invadEd India during the 1961-62 cricket
season. With Salim Durrani, he was the sheet-anchor of the
Indian Test team. l30th at Calcutta and Madras, Borde in
cunning-conspiracy with Durrani, ripped open the English batting
and· sent it· plummeting to the depths with some merciless spin
bowling. If Clyde Walcott was the" rabbit" of Dattu Phadkar
in days not that old, Dexter, who is presently setting Australia on
fire, was Borde's. The best of batsmen have chinks in their armour
and it is upto the bowler to exploit them. It is this uncanny
skill that stamps a bowler as great. Bradman had, on quite a few
occasions, to bow to Bedser while Len Hutton had, quite often,
to dip his sail to LindwalL It is all to the credit of Borde to have
got the better of Dexter, that butcher of bowlers, and enabled
India to get even with England. after Dattu Gaekwad and.his
Indian team had got" dl'owned " in the English channel, during.
the illfated Indian tour of England in 1959,
It cannot be said of many cricketers that they have been
asked to accompany a touring team within two seasons, cons·tituting DO more than five matches of first class experience. But
to Borde, this came, naturally, inevitably. He, .first, turned
up for Mahal'ashtra in the Ranji Trophy championship and in his

