FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

47

co~exlstence a'nd co~destl'\.1ction. The non~alignment policy is
important in the creation of an atmosphere of co~operation.

Peace cannot be achieved by giving long speeches or by
accusing other people or other countries who act in a manner
which we don't like. To have peace, we must develop the temper
of peace, and try to win even thofle who may be suspiciou's of us
or who think they are against us. We have to try to understand
others just as we expect them to understand us. To settle
dispute in a peaceful manner is the only civilized approach to the
problems and lraves no ill~will or bitterness behind. Yet we
'have to protect ourselvEs and to prepare ourselves for every
eontingency. We have to meet aggression. To sUITender to evil
is always bad. But in resisting evils, we must not allow ourselves to be swept away by our own passions and fears and not
act in a manner w11ich is itsrlf evil. Even in reAisting evil and
aggression, '\'I e have to maintain the temper of peace and hold out
the hand of friendship to those who through fear or other reasons
may be opposed to us.
Our defence forces-Navy, Army and Airforce-cannot be
compared with the armadas of other nations. But the question
is whether these countries have solved their problems with the
help of their armed forces? Or have they gained any other thing
other than to develop a " military outlook?
An evil has to be met with armed forces, without getting
corrupted by the evil itself. So each Government must give
priority to the defence of the country. But what is defence?
Most people seem to imagine that defence consists of large
numbers of peo'9le marching up and down with guns. It is true
that armed men and machines constitute defence." But defence
means many other things too. It includes the industrial potentiality of a country, the morale of a country, the food production of
a country and the like. All this has to balance with the capacity
and resources of the country and we cannot upset this balance
very much. So the best thing to strengthen our defence would
be to strengthen our morale and be determined not to surrender

