50

INDIAN INSTlTUTE Db' TECHNO'LOGY, MADRAS

It was the same old story once and again in every meeting
and Mr. Lobo was excelling as an orator-engineer. But n:)t for
long-the various prE'sidt'D'ts of the locality approaohed him and
mildly requested. him to consid~r the lack of wisdom of his
audienoe. "Yt>s" thought Mr. Lobo ,. I would tJ.'y to be 11101'6
practical from the next time ". Mr. Lobo soon ohanged the
nature of his speeches and his a.ddresses WE're so simple, touching.
humorous and thousand more things that he \\ as invited by almost.
all the assooiations and clubs that called themselves so. Thus he
was a regular visitor of "Rats and snails a menace "I" Cats and
Dogs Society" and the like.

We now come to a later pel'iod. It happened that an
Engineer's confel't~nce was to be staged in the place where
Mr. Lobo was staying and vel'y eminent engineers were invited
and advanced theories and l'~search works were going to be
discussed. Mr. Lobo was of course invited being an eminent
engineer and an experienced one at that (for he was now in his
forties).
And the fine morning came and the conference got to a flying
start. ·Engineers were pouring in and out and the discussions
began. Soon it was Mr. Lobo's turn to addresfI.
tl

Gentlemen" started Mr. Lobo" it gives me great pleasure

to address such a learned gathering.
" The human mind and its l'eactions al'O so very fascinating
and I have been endeavouring my best to·study it. There is a reaction of the mind as soon as it sees certain actions. Why? EveR
now as I see that young man jumping tothefront row Iremember
my visit to the" Grow more Rabbits AsSQCiation" for I see a
similar action there but the performer was a black rabbit. I
must insist that none of YOll should miss the opportunity of observing the moventent of the hind legs of rabbits' when they run.
They are just as fascinating as the snorting of the bull whioh I
had the opportunity to hear (and see) on another oc-casion when
I had been to the" Bull Breeder's Association" ...

