FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

53

like d~legates to the manner born, we had meanwhile allowed
ours!'lves the aristocratic indulgence of seeing a. great number of
porters carry.our light luggage. The porters, most of whom had
no uniform, looked very much different from the arrogant bluebloused throng in red turbans hectoring you at Madras Central
Outside the dismal station we saw a person at the taxi-stand.
I do not know to this day if this individual was the student
volunteer; he might as well have been a press reporter or a hired
assassin. Probably he was having an arm-band bearing the
legend BRITISH COUNCIL neatly folded away in his pocket.
He did us the kindnesss of pushing us into a taxi and telling the
drivel' to take • propel' care' of us. We did not know that the
idiom in Malayalam, a stran ge language. was some code word.
The" taxi took us by mazy, circuitous route covering all the main
I'oads in Tri vandrum, for the drivers there did not generally
subscribe to the banal geometric notion of the shortest distance
between two points. Our taxi was one of the many that drew up
before the portico of the superbly-built and shabbily-maintained"
• Hostel' -a curious euphemism in Indian political circles for a"
Luxury Hotel-for Legislators, I got down to be received like
the Hon. Membe! from Badagara o! Chenganacherry. I know
t will never be an M.L.A., though I was once a member of the
Madras Lambretta Association till I defaulted paying the annual
subscription.
We were shown up to single bedrooms with the breath-taking
comforts normally provided only to people's representatives.
The posh Dunlopillo mattress robbed me of my sleep by its
excessive, sensuous softness. I lay awake as thoughts rose,
like sparks from grindstone, to die in a split-second. A unique
experience still lay ahead of me.
Fading night clung softly to the dawn that broke on the first
morning, tipping the coconut palms with gold. We "had a whole
day before us until the" Seminar was to be inaugurated by the
Governor. We knocked about the town in small groups. Tiny
Trivandrurn boasts of double-deGk:er buses; there are then the
zoo (km)'\~n .locally as the' soo '), the park, the paintings of Ravi

