54

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

Yarma and Nicholas Roerich and the town looks in patches
remarkably like Mysore which once supplied her with Dewans.
The one reason why the womeJl of Trivandrum have not
gone red is the presence of President (formerly 'Centaur ')
, Candy's' gift to the state of a pin-up-boy; I mean, Mr. Dove of
the America' Calcheral Sendah '.
The boisterous younger delegates, who dreamed of the three
W's of Omar Khayyam were a problem to the Seminar Officer.
Mr. S. N. Kumar, who adopted an ingenious method to put them
on their best behaviour. He hinted to us casually that probably
one of us may be invited to England by the visiting professors.
It worked.
The inauguration wa.s a very formal affair. The seminar
commenced from the next morning. The professors had come to
India with their papers fully prepared at home. The papers had
been typed or even printed. Each one had his field of specialisa.
tion. Prof. Humphreys dealt with the Augusta~ period and
Dr. Jack with the Romantic. They raised their eyebrows when
they were told that professors in India could talk best and at their
longest when they were least prepared apd could c.over the whole
range of world literature without the least fear of insulting the
intelligence of their audience. The English professors of English,
however, were content to read tbeir papers in the most casual
manner that concealed all the art and labour that bad gone into
them.
The Master of the Ceremonies was Mr. R. M. Auty, the
British Council chief at Madras, a familiar figure to the lITians,
remembered in particular for his lecture on Humanities and
Sciences. Wearing old-fashioned Gandhi-type spectacles, he has
the thinnest and most-easily cracking film of the British insularity. A product of the London School of Economics, Mr. Auty is
also well-read in literature, his last li terary talk being on Somerset Maugham. I fear that in his position he must be finding it
strenuous to steer clear, on the one side, of his countrymen here,
most of whom are planters and businessmen with not two thoughts
to rub against each other and the local Indian talent wangling and

