FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

55

rope-dancing for -visiting professorships and scholarships. He
was seen sipping India Caffee with us during the coffee-breaks
and one fine day he vanished with no more ado than an iceberg
in ' Inferno'
Mr. Geoffrey Tribe, who took over charge from Mr. Auty in
the middle of the session, can easily pass for an athletic coach.
He seems to have a built-in gyroscope that maintains his equilibrium during his speeches whenever he twists his body like a
contortionist. He somE.>how gives you the feeling that he has
one more exam. to pass. Those who ha va often heard himlecture at the British Coum'il Library in Madras, have learned to
love him for his sardonic humour; the delegates at Trivandrum.
h(Jwevor, were nonplussed by an unfamiliar face with a serious
facade, when he conducted the Brains Trust. Some of his bons
mot8 consequently did not catch. According to his own confession the Assistant Representative has as much knowledge of
science and technology as the late, lamented Marilyn Monroe?
only the humanities and social sciences interest him.
The opening lecture was delivered, fittingly enough, by the
historian, Mr. John Hale of Oxford. The lecture was entitled
Thinking Historically" and aim€'d at giving us a historical
perspective of the literary periods, the Augustan and the
Romantic. Mr. Hale is the youngest of the three musketeers;
he revels in speaking without lecture notes with the gusto of -a boy
on cycle calling out, "Look! No hands!" He has a boyish mop
of hair \l hich he often brushes back with his hand to appeal' about
as much dignifitd as the head prefect of an English public school.
No dull dog that the proverbial teacher of history proves to be,
Mr. Hale, with his zestful liveliness, not only caused some
agitations in the feminine hearts but won intltant converts among
the male delegates. His Public Lecture on Machiavelli was his
masterpiece. - Looking past the mere symbol of much that
is deceitful in politics, the historian took us to Machiavelli the
man, the gay young blade and the man of letters.

41

Dr. Ian Jack, who migrated from Oxford to Cambridge som.e
months ago, at first strr ck llS as a qlleel' fish. He would often

