56

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

hang his head limply on one side and sometimes shake himself
like Thurber's terrier worried by imaginary lice. An unfortunate
victim of nervous twitchings, he was almost prevented from
leaving for India.. But once he lwId the podium, Dr. Jack was a
master; his teeth-snapping and wheezing would stop and he
would raise himself on his tip-toe and generat(> much good sense.
It was a matt(>r of amusem(>nt to aU of us to see him stand on
tip-toe for a full hour, without looking gawky or feeling tired.
Dr. Jack will be long remembered for that talk at short notice
be gave on F. R, Leavis, the great literary critic, on Wednesday
morning. We made him alter the scheduled subject and tell us
about the critic who has stood out against the climate of the age
in a stance of harried isolation. Managing to arrive late by a
few minutes for his lecture, D!'. Jack hit off with an aside on how
the English were unnecessarily punctual and how he was, thank
God, a Scotsman. The lecture was tinged with his icy Caledonian humour that set up ripples of laughter. It waS a mortal
blow for all Leavisites. Not probably daring to pull Leavis's leg
at home, Dr. Jack opened his broa.dside on the aggressive
genius calling him an ignoramus, and his work a second hand
stuff of a second rate mind. Commenting on Leavis's 'hostility to increase of knowledge', Dr. Jack observed that Lea vis
was familiar only with Cambridge and that too one part of it.
Prof. A. R. Humphreys of the University of Leicester (pronounced 'lester') is pleasingly donnish, never in the pejorative
sense. He was instrumental in starting his department in the
university. An Augustan figure in appearance, he must have
been a Romantic at heart in his younger years. His most popular
lecture" Oxford and Cambridge" was illustrated by coloured
slide~ snapped by himself. One slide showed his wife picking
flowers in their garden. Prof. Humphreys is a tall, stately figure
in his navy blue suit and he looks at you with his gimlety blue
eyes. A genuine interest in the Indianness of the beautiful
things that he saw around made him interject often, " It's lovely,
isn't it?" We loved to watch him laugh heartily at the
witticisms of his younger colleagues-a phenomenon invariably
reversed in India. I understand that the professor has also

