FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

57

taught on several British Council Summer Schools in England,
Austria and Denmark, and that he is much interested in adult
education work.
The Public Lectures were held in the campus of the host
university under the shadow of the conch-crested tower. The
local elite turned up in good Dr m berE'. Gaily clad yon ng women,
with their hair still wet from their evening ablutions and
redolent of copra oil, approached the dis':,inguished vistors with
their autograph no~ebooks.
In the farewell party '\~e wishrd to present the visHing professor!=! with an impressive memen:o of an exquisite carving of a
row of elephants. We detained them after the Brains Trust and
threw a pleasant surprise on them. The professors were garlanded
by the ladies and the officers proffered bouquets. When Dne
-lady was rather reluctan~ about the garland on sentimental
grounds, some one quipped that the three guests and the officers
wel'e all happily manIt: d. They were visibly moved and some
eyes glistened. The genE'ral feeling at leave-taking would have
deteriorated had not a Madurai Principal ta.ken over tho fluid
situation to orate. With his white turban and the glorious
W -mark on his forehead ho dazzled the foreignel's, who took him
for the Raja of Mad. rat, with 'terribly long ql.1ota·~ions from
Newman and Ruskin the gen'tleman froze everyone and wiped
cc every tear fl'om evel'y eye"
It was amusing to observe human vanity in it.s various manifestations, al'l:ant snobbery .and sheer eccentlicity at such a
gathering of Anglophiles. Seminar, I am inclined to b.:'lieve, is
a misnomer for Vanity Fail'. Each delegate had s:>me pet
author or crazy theory by which he would always swear. One
coy lady released on us copies of a sheaf of poems that she had
written long ago.. A profess 1'let. all of us understand that he
had come to Tl'ivandl.'um by air. Two delegatfs, who had confided to me that they were ardent Leavisites, avoidtd me after
Dr. Ja.ck's denigration of their master. One member from Central
India with morbid dietary leanings was all the time talking only
about food. There was another who was shadowing the English

