FOURTH .ANNU.AL NUMBER

61

the bag. Can't always keep a guy down you know. As expected,
Kennedy did not like the situation at all and did he send up a
yell to us. Boy, this was where the fun began. No sooner had
Kennedy finished yelling to us about the injustice we had let his
chum, perpetrate, than his chum starts kicking up a row klaiming
that we don't "help those who help themselves", as we are
supposed to, down there.
This was just the mild beginning. Later we had to work
overtime because of the noise Kennedy and his kounterpart
insisted on a making over the Kuban K1·isis (with Kapital " Ks"
as they called it).
You see, the Kennedy Kharacter's rear was still smarting
and the guy said he was quite willing to go full length, if we did
not do what he had the nerve to call, our duty and kick Krushchev
and his cigars out of Kuba. Krushchev too made it very plain
that he was not satisfied with the ~urn of events.
This was where I began going grey. You recall those cigarlike objects I referred to. Well one of my juniors comes and
tells me he has inside information that they are kapable of
exterminating the humans on Earth. Did I sit up and take
notice? If that had happened the Boss might have sent me down
to keep those humans kompany. He has some sort of misguided
affection for them and prefers to let them exist, though I for one,
feel that· the planet would be better off without them. But this
is strictly between you and me.
Anyhow, to kame back to the point, kan you imagine those
pesky kharacters making me liable to lose my job. 'VeIl I soon
put an end to iI;. I was aU in favour of bringing those two up
fOl· a pl't'matUl'e reckoni.ng, but whrn I kooled down I felt it
better not to draw the attention of the Highel' Authorities. After
further thought I decided to let Kennedy come out on top this
time. He had been exercising bis vocal khords more and
moreover he came out worst on the previous occasion. I am
refeming. to the invasion. So I arranged it tha.t Krushchev
backed down, growling of course, and that was that,

