64

INDI~ INSTITUTE OF TEOHNOLOGY, MADRAS

of mental inertia. Every milestone along life's journeY' from
womb to tomb seems a step forward but in the negative direction.
The rigid and generally intolerant environment clinging to
obsolete and complex patterns of bygone ages enforces a certain
type of 'thought control' in
most subtle manner. Lack of
confidence; the development of parasitic tendencies and love of
austerity for its own sake are .only a few of the many negative
qualities acquired in the Indian social set-up. The state of
mental inertia is very conducive to the acceptance of these
negative attitudes and w.e soon find that the less original and
more conformist we become, the batter off wo are. Overwhelmed
bF" the complex social patterns we drift throllgl1 life unable to
steer it according to our desires. In an environment devoid of
incentives there is really no need for hard and sustained work.
Thus the difficult and vicious spiI'al of poverty and lack of
opportunity perpetuates and propagates itself and le:1.ds to
pathetically amusing situations.

a

At a time when men are exploring outer space, the love of
the principle of leas~ work in this country is unfortunate and
embarrassing. While i-t is a well-known joke that the Americans
hav-e no time to attend their own funeral it is probably no exaggeration to remark that we spend all the time in preparing
for not only our'own but everybody else's funerals. The nation
oan no longer afford to oontinue in its long period of deep
slumber. "The mechanism needed to awaken us from this state
needs to be created by the people themselves. It ought to be
the primarly aim of aU development plans. The campaign for
the elimination of inertia may be called the National Inertia
Eradication Programme (N.I.E.R.) NIEP shoud do everything
possible to convince us that Man, although trivial in the cosmic
scale, ought to think and feel as the master of all things. The
sooialorder needs to be reorientated and people made increasingly
aware of the pleasures that can be derived from developing a
zest for life and trying to live every moment of it. Contentment
with meagre living conditions and fatalistic reconciliation to
difficult situation will cease to have any appeal in a socialorde:r
in which life's problems are ('.()nsidered as mere challenges and

