69

FOURTH A.NNU A.L NUMBER

The tl'ouble starts right at the entry-point in India-the
Oustoms Shed. Whereas you had been treated abroad for years
&s an honest and mature man, the stuffy customs official makes
you feel at once an insignificant underling cringing for special
favours. He treats you as if you have been smuggling all the
gold, or for that matter opium in China into India and as if even
your suit-case were transistorized. Your protestations that the
obviously battered-looking radio has been in your possession for a
long time will certainly go unheeded; but that is not what hurts
you, nor the 50% duty based on its new price, but his whole
attitude towards you as a man in your own right, and this has tQ
be experienced to be believed 1
You still have a few dollal's (or marks or pounds or francs or)
left and so you pay the porter and the taxi-driver five or ten
times their normal rates and then find yourself being abused (in
yarticularly foul language. some of which you may. be fortunate
not to understand) for not paying more. Meanwhile your uncles,
-aunts and cousins (more generally than your father, mother and
brothers) will be complaining about your extravagance and about
the like of you upsetting the whole income structure of the place 1
All this you withstand with remarkable fortitude, even
though you realise you are losing rapidly your individuality,
acquired in the past years against all the odd& of the pre·vioua
Indian upbringing, Soon you will find that you have precious
little say in matters which concern only you such as your marriage, religious habits and even, sometime, your career. Of course,
there is nothing to stop you from breaking yourself completely
away from it all. But you are not prepared to go that far. So
you get used to a society which has stood still for centuries; you
will wonder that though you were brought up after all in these
sUlToundings, you feel a strangt'l' to it now. Almanacs, horoscopes and astrologers determine your daily life; the superstition
all around stifles you. You f.eel you are a twentieth-century
misfit in a pre-biblical world!
Soon you look around for work if you did not already accept
a position in India while still abroad. By the law of probabilities
you are more likely to land in some organisation controlled by
the Government. Were it a factory, a laboratory or a Universitr

