7()

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

you will find that it is run like a collectorate. Directives and
circulars constantly remind you that you as a person do not exist,
you are just a cog in the wheel of the bureaucratic machine.
You are unlikely to be consulted before hand on any work you
are to do, you will just be told to do it. If you are in a factory,
you will find it is managed by laymen who have no idea of t.he
technical processes involved. If you are in a research 01' teaching
institution you are likely to be confronted with a total lack of a
sense of purpose and direction. There will be immaculately
an'anged conferences and oft-repeated cliches will be utterred by
Ministit>rs, Deputy Ministers, M. Ps., and others. Totally impracticable ideas are often presented as concrete proposals and
wishful thinking substituted for constructive thought and work.
Even research laboratories, which should seek to set high standards of intellectuai honesty, sometimes resort to large scale
swindling of the public and the Government by publicising results
which have been cooked up for a particular occasion and even by
faked demonstrations. If you protest against such gross immorality, you are a marked man and may count on an the fury of these
people, who are obviously very powerful to get away with it all
and are even honoured for the show they put up.
You take to heart the way all the gigantic efforts of a wellmeaning Government are set to nought by a corrupt minority
who give no leadership to the vast unthinking army of yes-men;
you experience how inspite of all prattle of ushering in of &
socialistic pattern of society, a strict regimentation into categories of people is practised more than anywhere else in the world;
you are shocked by the intellectual and social corruption of a whole
nation. You decide that the only way out of the morass is to
leave it all and escape from thEl seemingly hopeless situation.
Even that is sometimes made difficult though not impossible by
all sorts of restrictions put on you.
If, after all that, you change your mind and decide to stick
on, it is only because of some vague consciousness that, with all
its faults, it is the land of your birth and that, it is better to be
an alien in one's own land than to be at home in an alien land 1

