72

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

consists of a four seatet' carriage rigged up behind a powerful
Harley-Davidson bought in the war days from the Army disposals. Most of tht m have stood the test of time as is testified
by the deafening roar and the rattling sound they make as they
move majestically along the roa.ds giving a tough competition
to the public transport.
A ride in one of these contraptions is a memorable experience. The plastic-covered cushioned" seats look very inviting
but feel like as if they were stuffed with scrap metal; A kick, a
loud roar followed by a sudden jerk and we are off I Each part of
the vehicle jolts at a different angle bearing testimony to the
senility of the shock-absorbing springs. A miraculous power
secures to hold the structure in one piece. The journey inevitably
leads to either an empty or an upset stomach.
H

Cyclists-thou~ands of them-are another characteristic of
Delhi. During peak hours they work havoc by riding as many
as six overcast. They turn a deaf ear to the loud, persistent
signals of motorists, thereby throwing all traffic discipline into
a state of utter chaos. They are, however, a problem as well 8S
solutions. Apart from relieving the load on buses, cyclists in
Delhi provide a. source of invaluable revenue to the Administration. The Delhi Police force thrives chiefly on the fines-and
bribes, of course-collected from offending cyclists. In fact,
without cyclists the police force would become inactive since it
seems to specialise only in checking cyclists' offences, while other
traffic moves along merrily, immune to any law and order.

Delhi is supposed to be a perfect synthesis of all sorts of
things-modern and ancient culture, Mughal and twentieth
century architecture and the like. One synthesis which baffles
one is the myriads of shoeshine boys in the fashionable shopping
centre of Connaught place, Like the shops they are an intrinsic
part of the pictUl'e. Walking along the corridors of this beautifully planned shopping centre one is accosted by a number of
grimy-faced teen-aged shoe-shines. If you give way to their
repeated pleas, your shoes are in fOl' a royal treatment, A

