'i6

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

wIth the two great epics of Greek literature the Iliad, an epic of
war, and the odyssey, an epic of travel. Grown out of the recollections of the golden age of the Kosalas and the Videhas, the
Ramayana is the unified work of the writer Valmild and has been
retold in beautiful Hindi by Tulasidas and in sweet Tamil by
Kamban. As Ramesh Dutt puts it, "The creative imagination
of the Hindus has conceived no loftier and holier character than
Sita; the literature of the world has not produced a higher ideal
of womanly love, womanly truth, and womanly devotion."
The Mahabharata is a description of the great historical war
between the Kurus and Panchalas. In the words of Rajaji. II The
characters in the epic move with the vitality of real life; It is
difficult to find anywhere such vivid portraiture on so ample a
canvas. Bhishma, the perfect knight; the venerable Drona; the
vain but chivalrous Karna; Duryodhana, whose perverse pride is
redeemed by greater courage in advr!rsity, the high-souled Pandavas, with god-like strength as well as power of suffering;
Draupadi the most unfortunate of queens; Kunti, the worthy
mother of heroes; Gandhari the devoted wife and sad mother of
the wicked sons of Dhritarashtra-these are some of the immortal
figures, on that crowded, but never confused, canvas. Then there
is great Krishna himself, most energetic of men, whose divinity
scintillates through a' cloud of very human characteristics. His
high purposefulness pervades the whole epic. One can read
even a translation and feel the overwhelming power of the
incomparable vastness and sublimity of the poem ". The
Bhagavad Gita is the U Essence of the Vedas" and teaches a
f loving faith' or devotion to a personal God, Krishna and the
necessity of good deeds U without regard to selfish benefit but
for devotion to God ".
The Panchatantra and the Hitopadesa are outstanding
co.11ections of animal fables in Indian literature. The former is
a treatise on human nature and a treat in the wise conduct of life.
It oonveys a Machiavellian notion of conduct and resembles the
Gulistan of Sadi l which beame the Veda mecum of British Civil
servants in understanding. the p~y'choldgy of Moslem Indian. It

