78

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

reading. II Their central teaching may impress some readers.
as nihilistic nonsense, and others as' mystic Bupersense; in either
Whether ~ great sage or a superb
case, it will at least impress
fool, he 'was certainly a supreme stylist"
uo

The Confucian ClasSics might well be regarded as the repository of a subst~ntial portio~ of the whole history of China. They
are the Book of History, the Book of Poetry, The Book of Ceremony, the Book of Changes, Short HistOI"y of Lu and the Analects.
The last of-them contains the- very seeds. of ",Confucianism which
fur two thousand years governed .the .destinies of the land of the
Yellow River. Lin Yutang's '''Wisdom of-Ohinaand India" offers
a valuable introduction to t~e.other classics of Chinese literature,
The Japanese trace the- history of the nation to the mythical
"age of the Gods", In his .(}Qllectjo.n of myths and gtories
written p'artly in Cbines~ ideagrams,· Yasumaro emphasised on
the way.of man , as recent-writers hol~
Tho Gathas or Psalms of the Avesta, . the Zoroastrian Bible,
contain tqe records of Visions and revelations of the great Prop het
of Persia. The Eighteenth Gatha. and the others are later hymns
in praise of angels and ancient heroes. and accounts of ceremonial
l'ules concerning purifications and ,protection against demons. Tbe
Ahura Mazda, the LoI'd of Light, Zoroaster believed, manifested
himself through six deified virtues Truth, Piety, Kindness,
Health.and sO" forth, Zoroastrianism, in short, was a pragmatic
faith demanding "Goodly thoughts, Goodly words, good1y
deeds, and nothiI)g mQl'e or less~"
Ohristianity, which is the most universal religion today, has
several denominations... which are bewildering. It is -differently
exp:ressed. in different ages and in differ.ent lands but has-certain
commnon t.enets eelieyed everywhere. The. Bible has gifted
to mankind a Universal God, a just God l and world brotherhood
built up on Love.
The old Testa.ment-is·dividedjhtolthree goups-the Law, the
Prophets... and the W-ritings. of different authors. GeHesis,

