FOURTH ANNU At. NUMBER

79

Exodus, Numbers, LeViticus and Deuteropomy attriouted to
Moses form the first section. The pronounc~ments of the Hebrew
Prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah and E?eki~l and the twelve minor
prophets are found in the books of Josh\ia, Judges, Samuel and
~n~s. The third section constitutes the Book of Psalms, Proverbs; Job, Song of Songl Ruth. Lamentation, EcclesiaRtes,
Esther, Daniel, Ezra", NehelUia_h ~nd the Chro,uicles. The other
religious document of Jews is Apocryha full of very beautif1l1
Iheatu1'6, 80m portions of which art5 read in Christian churche.
Written in Greek, Mark, Luke, Matthew and John of the
New Testament and arranged in a manner suitable for reading in
church and for teaching purposes. Of the remaining 23 books,
most are letters of St. Paul. These Gospels and Parables contain
an account of the birth, infancy, discoUTses of Christ. The deeper
spiritual meaning of the life and work of JesUs· as the Scm of God
is retold in his own way by St. John. Mary Ellen Chase's" The
Bible: and the Comnwn Reader", FDSdick's·'· Guide to Understanding of the Bible ", dealing with God, Man, Right, and
Wrong, Suffering; Fellowship with God and Immortality are the
result of three genrations of historical biblical critioism.
Arab literature began with the Koran; II the thing to be read"
30 chapters in all. .. The sincerity of the work is itself its chief
mer~t." It is believed :by the Moslems to contain the words of
Allah dictated to Mohammed in Arabic form, a book ~ePt in
Heaven. The Koran consists of many stories borrowed from the
Old Testament, later Jewish writings and the Christian apocryphal Gospels. These revelations are regarded as' miraculous
because but for A.llah who chose Ubu'l Kassim to be His Prophet,
these might not have been revealed to him. The Koran is for
Moslems the m.9st S301:ed.-book in .:the- we-rid, c(;mtaining as they
firmly believe, the last word of God to mankind.
Thanks to the great philologists the above mentioned sacred
writings of the Ilistorica!lymost important eight religions of the
world are no longer sealed in strange languages. No important
holy book is without a translation today and all the scriptures of
the.:w.orld.are,avaHable -in the-English language. ABa they-require

