FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

87

mouth. The shameful advocate hid his head behind the heap of
papers before him as if not to hear the loud laughter raised in the
court.
Let .us next pass on to the humour that arises on account of
exchanges between the members of the Bench and the Bar. No
doubt there exists a good feeling between them and the Justices
show considerable latitude to the members of the Bar in placing
their clients' cases vigorously. But still, certain lawyers, out of.
emotion and without disrespect to the Bench, in the heat of their
arguments, of course, stung by caustic remarks of a peevish Judge~
sometimes lose their equipoise and use expressions which they
never meant to utter; and more often than not, they are incisive
duel of sallies and jokes, repartees and rejoinders. Mr. Oswald
was noted for his defiant attitude towards the Judges and his
caustic wit. He once said in Court that the proposition was one
with which no reasonable man could disagree. The Judge,
interrupting, observed: "I beg your pardon, I disagree with it".
Mr Oswald politely retorted: "I said reasonable man, My.
Lord".

On another occasion, the same Oswald was opening an appeal
case before a Judge who seemed wOITied and cried out: "Really,
Mr Oswald, you might give Judges credit for a little commonsense ". "That, My Lord, was the mistake I committed in the
Court below", replied Mr Oswald.
Once an English Judge expostulated at the proposition of law
that the celebrated Irish barrister John Philpot Curran -yvas propounding before him and exclaimed: " If that is the law, I may
burn my law books".
Mr Curran replied tartly:

1&

Oh No, Milud, better read them H

When a Counsel in America was pleading his client's ignol"-o
ance of law as an extenuating circumstance, the Judge remarked
that ignorance of law was no excuse, quoting the famous Latin
maxim: Igt].orantia, Juris non-eXCu8at.
Ie Yes,
Your HOllour", replied the learned Counsel, "I'm
awa.re .that every shoe-maker, tailor, mechanic and illiterate

