88

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNQLOGY, MADRAS

la.bourer is 'presumed to know the la.w-Yee, every man is
presumed to know-except Judges of the Supreme Court and we
have therefore a Court of appeal to correct their mistakes".
There have been instancea from our own courts, too. When

a Vakil from a District Court appeared before the Chief Court
to argue an appeal case, the presiding officer eyed from top to toe
thrice and throwing a contemptuous glance at the young Vakil in
a very over-bearing manner asked him: "Have you ever appeared in this Court before? ", Replied the Vakil: "My Lord,
more than once, in better times, before better Judges n •
A leading criminal lawyer who was extremely improvident
and always shabbily dressed, on one occasion wore a brand new
silk turban, a new alpaca gown, besides the new coat and the
starched collar and the shining shoes, A Judge, a meticulous
observer as he was, who saw the glimmering lawyer, leaned
forward and solemnly inquired of him: "Have you won a lottery
prize, Sir?". Pat came the answer from the lawyer; c. No,
Milud. It's you Lordship who wins a lotten-y prize on the first of
every month
It.

Two Counsel were arguing an appeal case before a District
Judge. On a certain point they came to grips and called eaeh
other names, each abusing the other as "silly ass", "donkey"
and so on. The Judge who was watching this silently and
enjoying the repartee, quietly remarked:
Gentlemen, now that
you have fully recognised each other, let us proceed with the
appeal".
.C

Certain Judges there are, who frequently interrupt the lawyers
in their arguments, apparently to impress the Bar with their
knowledge of law. A lawyer at one time exasperated at such

uncalled for interruptions by a Judge cried out: "Milud, you are
paid to listen, I am paid to talk, and let Us perform our respective
duties n.
Sometimes the Judges also are victims to the witness' clever
retort and repartee. Justice Jeffreys once mistook an apparently
stupid witness who was having a long beard, and took a dislike

