89

FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

to the man even at the outset, and remarked that if his conscience
were as long as his beard he must have a very troublesome one.
To this the bearded witness retorted: "My Lord, if you measured
consciences by beards, you would have none at aU".
Personal references by the advocates in the course of their
arguments are not uncommon, and in their zeal, often remind the
Court that they have been in the Bar for so many years and
therefore they could put forward a point of law with un stinted
confidence and the Judges rejoinders on such occasions are
humorous and witty. In a case whel'e a Judge decided that
certain evidence was inadmissible, the attorney took a strong
exception to the ruliug and said: " I know, YOUI' Honour, that it's
proper evidenc~. Here I've been practising at the Bar for forty
years, and now I want to know if I'm a fool?". The Judge
replied: "That's a question of fact and not of law I and so I
wouldn't pass my opinion upon it, but will let the Jury decide".
There are certain lawyers who forget the fact that court hall
is not a proper forum to show off their mastery of the language
or the range of their vocabulary. They try to be pedantic and
use expressions that puzzle the witness or confound the Judge
and the JW'y. When a witness answers a particular question
without understanding the high literary language put by the
literateur-Iawyer, we sometimes get a laugh which is in fact not
against the witness' poor vocabula1'Y, but against the lawyer's
sesquipedalianism, In an important case where a man was
examined with reference to his qualifications as a Juror, he was
asked: "What do you understand by a preponderence of evid·
ence? n. Back came the answer: "It's evidence previously
pondered
In another case when a witness was asked to
explain dB jure and dB/acto, he l'eplied, perhaps because of the
phonetic similarity of the terms jure and jury: "They mean, you
must prove the facts to the satisfaction of the Jury ~
ft.

It

Certain celebrated barristers pun their expressions studiedly
chosen, so much 80, their ambiguities understood in a different
oontext and meaning. give rise to a mild fun. John Philpot
Curran was one such and in one of his trials be was pressing the
Jury rather in"tently and the Judge irritated him by constantly

