90

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TBCHNOLOGY, EADRAB

shaking his head·, indicating thereby that the court did no~ agree
to what he was saying. "Gentlemen of the JUl'y ", commented
the great Curran at the end of his arguments, " you must have
noticed His Lordship shaking his head. I ask you to pay no
attention, because if yon were aswell acquainted with His Lordship as I am, you would kBow that ",hen he shakes his head,
thB1'e is nothing in it"
When a young barlister expressed surprise a·t the ruling of a
Judge and was severely criticised for doing so, his senior stood up
and apologised for him by saying: "Whenever my junior is as
old as I am, he will never be surprised at anything your Lordship
says or does," and those present at the coun who got the meaning
of this enjoyed the fun.
Besides the funs ollenly enjoyed and wits equally shared by
alL in the court, among the brother-a.dvocates an unexpected wit
may be cut at the expense of any in the court. A learned Counsel
when the Judges had retired for a few minutes in the midst of his
argumentt in which from their interrup~ions and objections he did
not seem likely to be successful, went out of cO'...lft, too, and on his
return stated he had been ddnking a pot of porter. Being asked
whether he wasn't afraid that this beverage might dull his
intellect and debase his spirits, he said: "That's just what I
want it to do, to bring me down, if possible, to the level of Their
Lordships understanding".
There was a criminflol lawyer whose clients, especially "W hen
tried for mUl'der, were almJs·t invariably convicted. He b:>asted
one day to his colleague: "I've been forty years at the Bar and
I've never had a complaint ab:mt the way I have looked after my
clients' interest." "That's because dead men tell no tales," was
the sharp answer.
A Judge's charging the jury regarding an accused for 110rsestealing who put in a peculiar plea of ,. matrimonial ins.anity ,
contained a humorous sally. It was in evidence that the accused
had malTied half a dozen times and was living with wife number
six· at the time of his arres·t. The Judge declared: "This, Court

