96

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

Technical Education with the Government of Madras), Professor
SenGupto, Mr. R. Natal'ajan, the Regis'Grar and the Superintending Engineer, Mr. Y. S. Ramaswamy. All ,the guests who were
assembled including the students rose in their seats, and gave the
distinguished visitors a magnificent welcome. Dr. Luebke was
evidently pleased. His face was wreathed in -smiles.
The function began with prayers. Then Dr. A. L. Mudaliar
welcomed the guests. He expressed 'his pleasure that it was
possible for the distinguished guest, Dr. Heinrich Luebke, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and Mr. Luebke, to be
present at Madras to participate in the function.
He referred to thc many cultural links that bound India
and Germany together durling a hundred years and more, and to
the help that West (+ermany had been giving in recent yeare to the
development of Iudia. The latest instance of such help WaS the
technical assistance from Germany in the establishment and
development of this Technological Institute' at Madras as mentioned hereunder:
(1)

Scientific and Technical Equipment from Germ allY of
the value of Rs. 1. 8 crores.

(2) the supply of German Professors and 5 Foremen for

teaching and training.
(3)

facilities for the training of 20 Indian personnel in
German Technical Uni versities.

Dr. Mudaliar referred also to the generous grant by the
Government of Madras of an area of over 600 acres of land
adjacent to Raj Bhavan for the location of the Institute. He
added that this Institute has been given by an Act of Parliament
the status of "an institution of national importance" and that
it provided at present facilities for under-graduate teaching and
also advanced post-graduate teaching in some subjects. It was
having during this year about 650 students on its rolls. When it
was fully developed, the Institute Campus would be a self-sufficient
township with about 2000 students, 1000 staff members of all
categories. hostels, workshop buildings, instructional buildings,

