FOURTH-ANNUAL NUMBER

97

and an administrative block of 5 storeys, a primary school, a high
school, a hospital, a Guest House., Staff and Ladies' Clubs, a.
Bazaar a swimming pool and a boating club~ It was the hope of
all that the work of construction would be completed by 1965-66.
Dr. A. L. Mudalial' rema.rkEd that the Institute would be ODe of
the most important and fruitful of the Indo-German projects in the
c';mn try , and referred with gratitude to the visit of the previous
German President, Dr. Theodore Heuss to the Institute. He
thanked Dr. Kraus of his unflagging interest in his capacity as
Adviser to the Government of India in the development of the
Institute, and expressed his appreciation of the work done by
Mr. Sengupto, the Director, Mr. R. Natarajan, the Registrar,
Mr. Y. S. Ramaswamy, the Superintending Engineer and all
the members of the staff to make this Institute a model one. He
.con~luded thanking Dr. and Mrs. Luebke for coming over to
India to inspire us with their presence, and to bless the Institute
. by laying its Foundation Stone.
After Dr. Mudaliar had finished his welcome speech,
Shri R. Natarajan, I. A.. S. (our Registrar) read out messages
from various distinguished persons in India -and Germany, every
one of whom wished success to the function. Among the mess8.ges that were read, those from The President of India, the
Prime Minister of India, Dr. Theodore Heuss, former President of
the Federal RepUblic of Germany. Dr. Konrad Adenauer,
Chancellor of the Federal RepUblic of Germany, Dr. Zakir
Hussain, the· 'lice-President of India, and The Governor of
Madras require special mention.
Professor Humayun Kabil', Minister for Scientific Research
and Cultural Affairs, next delivered his address. He spoke
extempore, and expressed his pleasure that it was given to him to
speak on this auspicious occasion when the Fomidation Stone of
the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras was to be laid by
the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The day;
was in many ways memorable not merely for Madras but for the
w hole of India. The first' of such Institutes of national importance was established at Kharagpur in 1951. The offer of help by

