98

INDIAN INSTITUTE- OF TECHNOLOGY, MA.DRA.S

the Gel'man Government to start the Institute at Madras was
made in 1956 when our Prime Minister visited Germany. 'l'l:e
second of st!ch InstitutE's was started at Bombay in 1958 with the
assistance of the UNESCO- and the co-optration of the Soviet
Union. The Madras Institute started functioning in 1959.
Professor Humayutt~ 'KaUir rE'ferred with ap~reciation to the
work done ah-eady during these three yE'ars to bring this Institute to its high level of efficiency. A city was rapidly growing
up in the Campus, dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge and to
the development of Science and Technology. He recalled how
Ill(Ha bas owed grc;>at deal to Germany tbrongh the years, and
how German scholars have been among the greatest interpreters
of Indian Culture to the Western World. He paid a glowing
tribute to the German people for the y-onderful way in which
they 'have re-built their cities and their economy, which had
been shattered by World War II: He acknowledged with grati.
tude how. Germany h~B b3an g~ving mlny evid:>nces of her good
will towards the developing country, India, and how this Institute
is plobably the most important of all such acts of help, He
praised German scholarship for its high standards, and fOlI- its
thoroughness and attention to details. The Indians are well
known for their imaginative and speculative achie\yements. He
expreseed the hope that in this Institute at Madras there will be
a marriage between these qualities in the ~ause of peace, and for
the s'el'vice of man. He thanked Dr. .A. L. Mudaliar and
Dr. Kraus for their abiding interest. in the gl'Jwth and welfare of
this Institute, and then reques ed His ExcE'llency Dr. Heimich
Luebke to 'lay ,the corner s~one of the Indian Institute of
Tec.hnology, Madras.

a

The President then laid the foundation stone amidst cheers
The highlight of the day was his speech on this memorable occa·
sion which he gave in a. clear ringing voice. The words of encouragement and wisdom had an instantaneous appeal. There
was thunderous applause when he me-ntioned the name of
Gandhiji. The following is the text of his speech:-

