FOURTH ANNUAL NVMBER

101

Kabil', Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, Mr. Kamal'aj (the Chief Minister of
Madras) and other distinguished guests who were present on the
occasion to wish godspeed to the Institute. It was a hist01'ic
occasion, and His Excellency, Dr. Heinrich Luebke, had laid
everybody under a deep debt of gratitude by traversing thousan('s
of miles from his Fatherland to lay the foundation stone of this
Institute. His intel'est in the welfare and prosperity of the
developing countries was well-known: and we would always
cherish his emphasis on education and self-help.
He next thanked Professor Humayun Kabir who had been
intimately associated with this Institute ever since its inception for
his presence and his inspiring address.
Professor Sen Gupto thanked the Chief Minister, of Madras,
Mr. Kamaraj, for his presence that evening and for his active
interest in the welfare of the Institute from the days when it was
ha.ving its "teething troubles". Expressing his indebtedness to
Dr. A. L. Mudaliar, Chairman of the Board of Govel'Il<?rs, he
referred to him as his friend, philosopher and guide" and said that
whatever progress ha.d been a.chieved by the Institute so far was
due to his inspiring leadership. He expressed the hope that-it
would be gi'en to the Institute to ha.ve his wise guidance for
many years to come.
He thanked Her Excellency Wilhelmine Luebke a.nd Frau
Schroeder for their gracious presence, and expressed his gratitude
to' Mr. H. H. Von Herwarth, and theil' Excellencies Duckwitz and
P. A. Menon for thl'"ir fostering care of this Institute. He specially
thanked Mr. Gerhard Fischf'r, the Consul of the F€deral Republic
of Germany at Madras for his continued interest in the growth of
the· Institute. Thanking Mr. Chandiramani, Joint Secratary of
the Union Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs,
for finding time to be present on this auspicious occasion, he
expressed his appreciation of the co-operation which he had
received in an unstinted manner from him as a Member of the
Board of Governors. Making special mention of the great help of
Dr. Kraus, and the Joint Secretary to the Ministry and of the

