112

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

As an a.djunct to the construction of residentia.l quarters 80 Shopping Centre hILS been constructed and is being commissioned. The
construction of a building for IL primary sohool ha.s been sta.rted and
is expected to be ready by July, 1963.
The highlight of the activitea of the construction during the
current year WILS the construdion of the open-a.ir theatre to
accommodate 1f.bout 5,000 people and tbe llLying of the foundation
stone of the AdministrlLtivc Block by the West German President.
The work of the stadium was firl~ mooted in August, 1961 and working
against time and continuous rainy spell the work was completed
pressing into service all tbe available resources of the Engineering
Unit The inauguration ceremony by the West German President on
8-12-62 was indeed a signal Buccess. The amphitheatre has been
oonstructed taking advantage pf a natural dip in the land a.nd is set in
the sylvan surroundings.
Services required for the campus of this magnitude like roads,
parksJ pipe lines, sewage lines, street lighting etc., have been completed. Intimation has been received of the shipment of the underground ca.bles required for the ca.mpus from Yugos\a.via and indoor
switch gelLr from MIs. Hea.vy Electrica.ls, Bhopal. With the arrival
of the cables and the special equipment the electrification of the
oampus in its fina.l sha.pe is expected to be completeA during the next
fina.ncial year.
Water for the present is being obtlLined from local wells a.nd a.lso
from the infiltration ga.lleries in the Urur Foreshore which has been
speoially commissioned for the purpose of tbe Institute. Two R.C.C.
overhead tanks of 1,50,000 gallons are under construction a.nd the
other of 50,000 gallons ILre under construction s.n.d a.re expected to
be completed by June this yea.r. Necssary water supply pumps ha.ve
been ordered Bond are Bo1so expected to a.rrive and be commissioned
by June this year. For tbe present water is being pumped from
the sump specially built to reoeive the Urur wa.ter spply and work
on the ma.in a.nd distribution pipe lines is in full swing.
In addiiion to the other normal engineering activities the Unit
has also taken up the manufacture of the entire furniture required

