124

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

The end of the 1st term saw two Annual Literary events
being brought to a. olose. The Annual Quiz was conducted on
the 29th November with Prof. Vaideswaran of the A. M. Jain
College as the Quiz Master. After ever an hour's fun,R. Venkates-waran stood first and S. Nageshwar and V. Siddharta tied for the
second place. The Annual Debate was held on 10th Decembe)·.
The proposition before the House was "Co-eduoation is not
conducive to the development of Scientific or technological genins;
may be to artistic aspiration ". R. A. Vaswani was placed first,
follotted by T. S. Ananthu and R. Yenkateswaran.
Besides these inter-class events. the Institute was represented
in various Inter-collegiate events. On August 27, R, A. Vaswani
was invited to participate in a discussion" The Youth and the
Nation" organised by All India Radio, Madras, On 17th August,
R. Venkateswaran attended a Quiz Programine organised by the
Madras College Student's Council at the Presidency College. He
was placed third, and a book" Great Ideas of To-day" which was
presented to the Institute, was handed over to the Library. On
17th November the "Saturday Evening Club" held its Annual
Quiz and Oratorical contests. M. Vikram Rao and R. Venkateswaran participated in the Quiz and R. Yenkatesw8.l'an Was placed
second. R. A. Vaswani and T. S. Ananthu took part in the oratorical contest. On the 6th N ovembel,' R. Venkateswaran and
M. Yikl'am Rao participated in the Inter-Collegiate Quiz at the
Engineering Oollege, Guindy. R. Venkateswal'an was placed third
this time.
The second term saw the start of the round of I~everal
Literary Activities which reached its climax on th& four days
26th, 28th, 29th, 30th of. January. On the 23rd, the Annual Group
Discussion Oompetition was held. The III Year team ca.1'1ied the
Elay's honours away, but the IV year team managed-to show their
best performance in this field of Literary Activities, li'nd'af.ter· 8
~pirited fight stood second..
This winning team discussed·
"Censorship is unavoidable in, any civilised: :.society'\ 1'.11&
Institute team for Group Discussion 'was selected. ,tm tI1e basis-of<
this competition and R. A. Vaswani WBIS' chosen:', as'leadsl' with

