FOURTH ANNUALNUMBER

125

R. Venkateswaran, V. Siddhartha. Srinivas Nageshwar, and
T. S. Ananthu, as the other members.
The Republic Day, saw the culmination of the activities of
the Literary Activities Committee. The Institute Trophy for
Inter-Collegiate Debate was tbe prize at stake. Five Colleges
had responded to our invitation. The Madras Christian College,
Queen Mary's College. Loyola College, College of Engineering
and the Pachaippa's College. The proposition before the House
was" The secret of Happiness lies in liking what one does and not
in doing what one likes". After a most interesting morning's
debate the borne team represented by R. A. Vaswani and T. S.
Ananthu bagged the trophy and T. S. Ananthu was declared the
beHt speaker of the day. It was amidst thunderous applause that
Miss Mridula Rao of the Queen Mary's College was placed second.
The first Inter-Collegiate event was extremely well attended and
the ball had been very well decorated. Prof. R. Krislmamurthi
gave an air of sophistication to the whole proceedings and acted
as Chairman.
The next inter-collegiate event was the German Recitation.
In this it was very unfortunate that not a single entry was
received from outside and even the Max-Muller Bhavan failed to
respond, in a satisfactory manner. The Recitation was nevertheless conducted and R. Venkatesw'\ran was placed first followed
by C. V. Sahasranaman. The Inter-Collegiate Quiz was held on
the 29th. Prof. Thomas Johnson of the Pachaiyappa's College, was
the Quiz Master. Only 3 colleges responded to our invitation.
The Engineering College, Queen Mary's College and Pachaiyappa's
College. The Institute was represented by V. Siddhal'tha and
Srinivas Nageshwar. The Engineering College walked away with
the Trophy. the first and the Second prizes. The Queen Mary's
College put up a very good fight and were a close second. Finally
the Inter-Collegiate Group Discussion was held on the 30th. Only
two colleges responded to our Invitation, the Loyola and the
Engineering College. The Institute Team was declared the best
and the Loyola College came second. The home team discussed
the topic" All said and done, more is said than done".

