126

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

The poor response to the Inter-Collegiate events was attributed to the fact that the events had been placed too close to each
other and also that :they were conducted in this part of the
Academic year. Next year, an effort would be made to space the
events conveniently and to conduct them at a time when the
University Examinations do not loom nearby I The All India
Character of the debate will be stressed next year.
Following these, the Institute debating team consisting
of R. Venkateswaran and T. S. Ananthu bagged the Law College
Trophy on 4th February. The individual prize was awarded to B.
Venkateswaran. The Johnson Rolling Cup for Quiz was the next
contest in the year's activities. The team comprising S. Nageshwar
and B. Venkateswaran was however not very successful and
R. Venkateswaran just got away with the 2nd Prize.
Finally it is with great pleasure and pride that I report the
phenomenal success of our debating teams in the third week of
February. In the space of 5 days, the Institute participated
in 4 debates, two of them being All India debates, and bagged
the trophy in three of the four. The first was at Jain College
where after a very tough competition, R. A. Vaswani and
R. Venkateswaran just failed to make the grade and were rather
unlucky in that respect. R. Venkateswaran was awarded a special
third prize however. Following this on Saturday the 23rd and
Sunday the 24th, R. A. Yaswani and T. S. Ananthu brought the
greatest of triumphs to the Institute by knocking off the All India
Debating Trophies at the B. E. College, Sibpur, Howrah, and at
the Sister I. I. T. Kharagpur. This indeed is the greatest achievement of this year and to top it all, on Monday the 25th R. Venkateswaran and Y. Siddhartha whacked the most coveted debating
trophy in Madras at the Cnristian College, Tambaram. The
Gordon Matthews Trophy for which the Institute participated as
defending Champions (R. A. Yaswani and Y. Siddhartha had.
knocked it off last year) was certainly a fitting finale to the
Literary Round ·up for the year. What's more the fust·time the
Gordon Matthews Trophy has' been successfully retained by
a defending.CollegEd

