FOURTH ANNUAL NUMBER

131

A.s reward for the hardwork of the Secretaries a few improve~
menis were at last seen and the long awaited. T. T. Table made
its appearance.
In September the news of the Emergency roused a great deal
of activity and in a wave of generosity the inmates contributed
a smllch 'as Rs. 7000- Voluntary blood donors increased fourfold.
The spil'it of the jawans was present in the increased attendance
at N. C. C. parades.
Came the m'st round of Literary A.ctivities an held in our
premises. The team for Group Discussion led by S. P. Shukla
was good enough to get the second place. Pl·etty fine beginning
for the Freshers! The Literary events were closely followed
by the H{)stel Tournaments in Carroms, Chess, and Table Tennis.
D. S. Ray and Jagannathan claimed the honoms in Carroms and
Ohess. The highlight of the Hostel Day celebrations was the
Table Tennis finals in the distinguished presence of Prof.
Sampath our Warden. Jaideep emerged th~ Victor. Diwali
was celebrated in a sober fashion in view of the emergency.
The examination fever then ran high for the next couple of
weeks. The markets, I am told, did a roaring business in Alarm
clocks, aspirin and other paraphernalia 1 The excitement of going
home for the vacation then gripped the freshers. After the visit
of the German President 10 days before the start of the va.cation,
a great contingent of students invaded the Central Station in our
effort to purchase all the possible tickets! Came December 14th
and we were off.
On our return, the inma.tes played host to the Director and
Mrs. Sengl.1pto on Republic Day. The round of Inter-Collegiate
events saw a lot of freshers as the major part of the audience I!
May be they were just learning the subtleties of taking part in
Inter-Collegiate activities or may be they were just encouraging
the participants t
With the final examinations looming before us, the hostel has
settled down to a quieter life punctuated only with the excitement
of the Intra-mural TOllrnamentp !
(JAIDEEP SINGH.)

