134

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

August 15th was celebrated on a comparatively large scale
in Krishna Hostel. The German Staff was invited and many
a.ttended. The Director too graced the occasion with his presence
and 1;he Registrar expressed his regrets at his inability to attend
8IS he would be away from Madras. After dinner there were
entertainments ranging from housie to a quiz conducted by
Mr. Gangadharan. There were two guest items. One was a
speech by Mr. Michael of Engineering College and the other a
:pieee of mimicry by 8hri 8iddhartha of Kavery Hostel. Musical
items too were not wanting. The highlights of the evening
however were the surprize package and of course, the fancy dress
competition. Shri Georg.a Verghese wa~ undoubtedly the best.
His portrayal of a "kuruvikaran" (gypsy) was authentic even to
a live monkey. The com:petition was open to the guests and
Dr. N* Klein was adjudged good enough for a special prize. The
success of the evening however depended in no small mea.~U1'e on
the efforts of our Warden, Assistant Wardens, and members of
t b:e :various committees. Shri C. Krishna as the Master of
Ceremonies did not permit a single dull moment to creep in.
Owing to the activities of the Gymkhana Committee, it was
felt that any debates such as were hel<l in the previous year
would be supel'fluous and hence to be avoided.
The National Emergt'ncy did not find KIisbna Hostel wanting,
The inmates rose gallantly to the occasion and contl'ibuted the
maximum among the three hostels. The collection of Rs.825/was greatly the result of the efforts of 8hri T. V. G. Krishnamurthy Shl'i D. B. Venkateewarlu and Shri T. K. Narayanan.
Among the many improvements made this year were the
installation of notice boards and the filling uy of a tank which
had been the breeding place of mosquitoes. Thank you Mr. Gangadharan and Mr. Subramaniam.
Plans are now being fOl'mulated for a hostel day whi.ch I

trust will turn out to be a grand success Wish you all the best,
Krishna Hostellers.

