·Vol. IV, No.6

liT Madras, 15th April,,,1966

20 P.

THIRD CONVOCATION
Nobel Laureate Presides
On the evening of July 30th pinched faces
(the most pinched being that of our .fresh
graduates) peered into the sky. The Cumulus
(or is it the Nimbus) clouds promised rain.
However it was Convocation Day at the IIT,
and the IIT is not to be trifled with. The
clouds thought the better of it.
The. crowd at the Open-air Theatre looked
on as Sir C. V. Raman and Dr A. L.
Mudaliar led the Academic Procession up to
the stage.
The atmosphere was dignified
enough to make Nestor leap out of his grave.
The OAT had obtained some 'Instant
Gardening.' The Golden Rule had not failed.
Remember how the OAS suddenly sprouted
two days before the Inter IIT Meet?· Even.
our Labourers believe in the Quantum
Theory. (Our Graduates may understand
the significance of that. . They'd better I)
What surprised some was that certain wooden
frames. placed all along the road, parallel to it,
needed some paint. A section of the
audience spent t~e evening admiring a beautiful Pandal. They were unable to see anything else even when craning their necks to
the utmost. Luckily for us, these artificial
'aids' to beauty escaped our Chief Guest's
eye. It was the banyan trees that impressed
him.
The Director gives them a' last warning,
before they leave his custody, not to use their
knowledge 'subservient to unworthy ends.'
One is certain that few will forget the instruction. Much to the astonishment of the

Freshers, (poor fellows, they have a long
way to go.) the robes did not seem to retard
the graduates as, much dignity as they could
muster, they walked past the stage. Even
Anand, whom the majority, had seen only
in sports-shorts and vests, seemed quite at
home in the cumbersome outfit. Lionel
Paul, who bagged the Governer's Medal
received his share of cheers. A few Gentlemen who receivep their second degrees, and
who teach the Undergrads, where shown
much appreciation by the student-audience.
Quite a Pot-Pourri isn't it ?
Sir C. V. Raman:s speech was the most
appreciated, and criticised event of the evening. While his oration held the audience
'spell-bound (except for a cat-call by an
-enthusiastic heckler,
Whose enthusiasm
received a rude ""Shock when the Great Man
gave an angry blink in the general direction
of the noise) it later kindled several argu.ments. The speech made one think deep
(far deeper than the. strata _of Periodical
Tests) for a change. SIr C. V. Raman 'openly
condemned the Space Research carried 'by
the alleged European Civilizations.' In spite
of all it's allied Projects (Worldwide broadcasting, increase in the range of the T. V.,
use of the • Moon Car' for crippled children
to enable them even to climb stairs) Sir
Raman condemned it-because, he claimed,
the ultimate goal in this' race is military supremacy. Few can be bold and so original in
thinking.

V. Sri'nivasan f Winner of the President's Medal

Time seemed to have hitched itself to a
Boeing. Soon we heard someone say that
the graduates would. take the Pledg~. The
majority of the audience started: to rise.' It
appears that our reflexes are convinced
that we are all Bachelors of Techriology.
However, we all had to sit down and. observe
Venkataraman Srinivasan, the winner of the
President's Medal for the best academic
,record, lead the rest. The N.C.C.· has left
deep scars on poor V. S. The sight of him
was impressive; while the QAT reverberated.
with th<! boom of his voice-' Om Shanthi,
Shanthi, Shanthi.'.
And one feels it in one's blood that no
IITian wilf forget Sir C. V. Raman~s warning, 'If you cannot.produce a.thing by yourself, do without it. That is the oniy way
out of the present- situation of our country'.
and that there will' be Peace, Peace and
Peace.
RAMAN INTERVmWS CAMPASTlMES
It was past four o'clock that evening when
four Campastimes reporters stepped into the
Institute Guest House to interview India's
only Nobel Laureate in Physics, Dr C. V.
Raman.
Dr. ~aman was quite different from what
we expected him to be-joking and laughing
most of the time. poking fun at everythPlg
from astrology to Dr A. L. Mudaliar's .turban.
We presented him a copy' of Campastimes
and he turned over the pages in appreCiation.
He seer.led rather pleased to see us.
When asked about his present work
Dr Raman told US (as non-technically as
possible) his lattst theory on colour-that
there are many more colours than those seen
in the spectrum by the eye. He believes
that the number of colours may be anything
between fifty and two hundred. We have
always thought that colour and luminosity
have nothing to do with each other. 'If I
tell you that they are· the same', said Dr
·Raman, • you may not believe me.' Fundamentally. sight is a Thermodynamic process.
'If you want to write about· me,' chuckled
Dr Raman, 'draw a caricature of me
captioned-The only turbaned south Indian I •
When asked about his idea on education
he firmly held that examples formed a very
!;\mall part of one's life. He told us that
although he was a man of science he holds an
Arts degree. In his B.A. examination he
had just managed to scrape tbrough in
Sanskri~ by one mark. . , This one mark has
made 'Ine what I am today'. remarked
Dr Raman.
Raman: Why are these boys standing in
attention? Are they in the N.C.C.?
The Director: N.C.C. is compulsory till
the fourth year.
Raman: After that they become gentleman,
I suppose I
He >could have talked with us endlessly had
we not been shunted out at this time.

,

C.N.S.

