CAMPASTIMES

2

CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEMENTS
Real Estate
Ideal plots for sale at (a) KATHYAYANI
NAGAR near lIT temple. Rs. 100 per
ground. All articles, food, clothing, including
building materials available at 'Market
Centre' .
(b) LADY NAGAR near girls' hostel.
Rs. 500 per ground. High !lehool and wo:ld
famous deer sanctuary very near. Bus serVice
frequent.
Just Out!
Two in One
I Why are final year mechanicals so fond
of turbo design? '
by an eminent asst. professor.
, What does elective mean in the
chem-engg. sense? '
by a department.
Just Out
(Rush before copies are sold out !)
.1 Asymptotic solution of the zero law of the
linear homogeneous Differential-Difference
equation with real constant coefficients'.
Contact D. V. Subramaniam(-:u) Maths.
Dept.
.
'Mobility of industrial workers during the
Sangam period'
_
by Dr. V. Anantharaman & Mr. KupPliswamy
Department of Humanities und Social
Sciences.
, Arc \ve still two nations? '
by Prof. M. S, VairanapiIrai.
• Of course, we are two nations'
by Mr. Kuppuswamy
Department of Humanities and Soci,\~
Sciences.
\Yanted
Injections for putting on weight. Write
to Gopakumar, Ganga Hostel.

Notice
The following lectures will take placc in
the neal' future; S. K. Arora on: '\Vhy I
always choose modest colours.'
N. K. Sawhney on: 'Why the spoons in
Narmada ~ess al'e twisted out of shape.'
Wanted
The Chemical E~gineering Department
wants a chauffeur. 1\1. Tech no bal'.
New Releases
'Fu Manchu plays the Beatles' .•.. The
man who overwhelmed Narmada Hostel and
Howrah Mail with his guitar.
'Besame Mi.\zho, 1966', by V. Khanna
and C. Singh ...• The most cacophonous
version yet, guaranteed to drive you wild.

For Sale
Cultural club, one off. Contact K. Sridhar,
Godavari Hostel.
Personal
I, being sound in mind and reason, an~
nounce hereby that as of today 1 have earned
to be Tammanapalli Narayana Reddi Vjjayn~
narayana Reddi, and shall henceforth be
known as Tammanapalli N allappn Reddi,'
Vijayanarayana Reddi.
Do you want to give a talk on mountaineet'~
ing in the Himalayas? It does n,ot matter
if you have never been there. Contact Peter
Lewis Masilamani, Saraswathi.
I, Gautam Mahajan, on resigning the
editorship of Campastimes, shall hereby eschew
all pretensions to greatness. My name shall
therefore revert to Gautam Jan.
I love you. Do you want a visiting card?
Please return after use. Rathindra N. Roy,
Student, Faculty of Electrical Engineering,
IIT Madras.
Keep up~to-date with the latest in nursery
rhymes. Contact R. Shankar.
Free samples:
(a) I say Mandip have you any books?
Yes yar, Yes yar, three bags fult:
None for you blighters, none for
you males.
They are all for the little gi"fJ who
lives down the lane.
(b) Mandip, Mandip, where did you go ?
I went to the hostel to meet my queen.

Mandip, Mandip, what did you there?
I got nabbed by the gUl'kha while
climbing the stair.
Free Coaching
George Verghese, ex-Athletics captain, 110\....
weighing in the middle and meddling with
weights, offers to give free coaching in
Athletics. As all additional incentive each
trainee will get a free bottle of Jeevantone,
left o\'er from last year's stock. Contact him
at Tapti.

For Restricted Sale Only
Book! Instrument boxes! And what not !
•. , ............ , .. (Sol'ry, not for yOll fellas).
First year girls apply quote personally unquote
to Mandeep Singh, Godavari Hostel.
P.S. Door to door delh'ery undertaken.
Reward! ...............•.•..........•.
Aah I Reward !
The person who can pinpoint accurately
where exactly the bathroom starts in the
South-'¥estern, 2nd floor wing of Narmada,
will get a suitable reward. Replies to be
sent to P.L.O., South-Eastern, 2nd floor
wing.
Personal
Howling and moaning services of a durable
quality available at nominal rates. Howling
for all reasons undertaken. E.g., Periodical
system, life in the hostel, population problem
or plain general howling just for kicks.
Address all business queries to Arun Jain,
Narmada.
Available
Lighter~than-ai1' gases for research, filling
balloons and getting rid of bores. Contact
Gaspot Sanyal, 307 Ganga.

Situation Required
Unemployed Editor requires suitable posi~
tion. Qualifications: Expert in the revival of
newspapers in hibernation (STUDENT
TIMES take note). Nose (hic!) for news
items. Apply to Campastimes office, ...... .
oops I Not there anymore. Try Narmada.
Need anyone bumped off? Anyone
blackmailed, followed or mugged? Need
any protection from bumping, blackmailing,
following or mugging? Just contact Hood,
Hoodlum Agencies, 2z8 Godavari.
Agony Column
An appeal to the umpire:
please let me have my baIl b:1Ck. A. Saha,
O.B.J.

Personal
Do you want to be strong, museulal' and
Herculean? For advice contact Rishi Raj
Gaur, Author of
C Ghee makes a strong man'
Do insects pester you? Do pests inspect
you? Do YOll have sleepless nights due to
'croaking of frogs? Why waste money on
hiring Dandona? Contact me-Lobo the
Dug-killer. I do it cheap-I do it fast-my
only equipment is strictly private. Patent
applied for:

Query
What was Mandeep Singh doing in Madras
.Avenue at 7"30 p.m. on 25th July '66 ?
Wanted
Wanted for the Kathyayini Sangeetha
Sabha, a President, a Vice~Pl'esiderit, a Secretary, a Treasurer (with some trC'<1sure) and
full-time audience. Contact Shri Jalakal1tes~
warn at the temple premises after pooja
hoUl's.
Machinery and Spare Parts
Do you want your fan repaired? Do you
want your bike fiddled with? Contact Kit's
Garage (Pidathala Krishna Mohan Murthy
Dhada Dhada Nair, the Manager). Unique
feature Kit pays you for repairing yom' stuff.
Rates: fan-One buck, bike-Two bucks.

[April 15th. 1966

It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad

tl.T.
Devaluation, deal' friend, has struck a
mighty blow to mighty IlTians~Devalua­
tion like lightning is fabled not to strike the
same place twice (perhaps because three
strikes is out-vide. BasebaH), but this time
has struck with lightening force-lightening
because the pocket purse has become lighter
(No I No ! We don't mean the fagger has
bought a lighter in exchllnge for his purse).
Also the marks for the periodicals have become lighter (Not the foreign periodicals like
LIFE International or something, but-you
know what). Director overheard: 'Devalua~
tion of periodicals will not affect economy
(for 4/5) of IITians' mark (et).' He is backed
by another Fresher to IIT (Economics ..•. )
who, we are s~re, is backed by many IITians.
Hence IITians are not at fault. Reason:
The Mark will yield keine klein rupees now!
Desi Bond [008 ,ji Surd PI{ 3 etc., etc.]
of Tapti Hostel was officially renamed
Desh POND (not Dreamflower) owing to the
proximity of BULLFROG Ram Mohan Rao
minus Rao of 4/ 5 Mech.-because brave man
isonteducingmissionto oxidise his fat (Straight
Chain Polymer) and hence go down toum - ' cooler' pond for water (Hz 0 aqua pura
refer: Mollier's Chart) to squirt water (same)
like ele~infant, as coolant for vocal cords (vide
GOPE & RODS by Design of ROPE and
CORDS ....... ,published by McGRAW
MOUNTAIN INC.,) fol' giving recognition
to this portly bigger than Billy Bunter (motto:
have grub, will be present). Our man POND
is hereby appointed Commander of the Wing
or Wing Repr~sentative (Salesmen for Wings
may drop in at Tapti Hostel and collect
samples).
Local (not by any means EXPRESS)
, S' Sambajayam has been ragging to his
heart's contenf,-Not that he has been rending
his heart-or hs contents (or Electrical shop
Foreman Hart) (or um Male deer). but has
been putting on his sad rags (they need um
wash after (362 days 2 seconds) wearing) for a
simple l'eason: Um Sambo wants to get
N.C.C, punishment-plus refreshment for
getting fresh with the freshers.
One man who did get fresh with heart
was-Master of Ceremonies Murthy. He
bumped at 40 Kmph into a hart and landed
on his soft very hard (giggle !)
Devaluation also hit Herr Mani (*ing Love
in Tokyo minus *ing) and Herr Author B.A.,
(hoping to become ,B. Tech. by process of
5 year metamorphism or cerebral thrombosis
of the heart). These people are not hit in
the guts but in the 'thora..,,' (vide Bl'onchitis
chronica harmonica) and the other in the lungs
(further development of cancer-part and
parcel-in the body politic of Indian economy
vide Dr. M. S. V. PiIlai).
Said Mani, ,; 'I give up fags; Let the
freshers out; Eet the fresh ail' in.'
Replies B.A., • It is periodical day, and a
puff a day will keep the germs away j but no
puff on periodical day will mean 6 years tQ
stay III'
So a l'esolution was passed (like the resolution of forces in App. Mech.: it never solyes
the problem)
'No puffs', says Mani, C they have to be
exported.'
, Replace imports by expor.ts' shouted B.A.
• that is most exportant'. So they flung the
Charms. away and to~k up PANAMAS till the
author of this article (IPC 420) discovered the
mark of Americanistic, imperialistic, chau~
vallistic, lipstick, hoovanistic, existing in the
name of these cigarettes.
Days latel', doughless like the centre of a
doughnut, our men agreed that devaluation
had caught up with them. Over and above
this was cD' ~valuation. So they rcsol"ednever to resolve, any resolves again (the (re)
sohttion was copied from Mihir Sen).

(Continued

OIl

page 3, col. 3)

