April 15th. 1966].

CAMPASTIMES

3

The Staff-Student Get.
together: The Freshman Welcomed

P'ERSONALITIES (21)

Cr
u

p

T
A

Campastimes News Service
Call1pastimes takes great pleasure in reporting thp get-together of the new entrants to
the Institute, staff and students. Never
before in thc Institute has there been a function of this order. The year has got off to a
right start. This is in a large measure due
to the President of the Gymkhana, Chairman,
Council of Wardens, and "Varden of Jamuna
Hostel. The co-operation betwecn the Gymkhana and the Hostels was something remarkble. If this continues the vear is sure to be
successful.
•
The tea Was distributed in a most efficient
manner, thanks to the organisational ability of
Dr. V. Anantaram. It took about IS minutes
for 2,000 people to receive their tea-Good·
show I After going through a long list of
after-tea speakers, (Thank God, Prof. Gupta's
was re~reshingly short) the freshers gave an
en ter~Q1nment programme.
ShC':er Guts! sheei' courage! For youngsters
to perform in front of a highly critical
audience during a period of ragging-And they
did it well. Hats off to them.
The function gathered tempo, the clouds
gathered moisture and hovered omniously; the
entertainers entertained bravely. The audience ~cpt one eye on the clouds, the other on
the stage. The clouds broke, the audience
fled, the entertainers were left standing!
The rain, however, did not dim the enthusiasm of the freshmen. However,' it did
dampen the President of the Gymkhana and
Dr. Anantaraman.
And so ended an unique function.

COLOURS to be introduced
C.N.S.
Way back in the background I could hear a
soft voice propounding • Ar/"e Bltai! You
must be tolerant. You must learn to ·live
with difficulties.' Out of the crowd came a
noise I But Sir, we only got l'asam with ri~e
today I' :. 'The chappathies were like sodden
mudpies' (our man thinks beyond the Leather
Institute). The soft voice very promptly
called the cook and told him off. The head
bobbed up and down and was lost among the
students.
When next I caught trace of the voice I
found myself face to face with Prof. R. K.
Gupta, Head of the Department of Humanities, Chairman of Council of Wardens, 'Varden, Ganga Hostel etc., etc. A short man,
(who always takes his height while standing
without shoes: he does not like to take the
advantage of standing in his socks), a plain
spoken man is Prof. Gupta. His whole life
he has spent in association with students and
they and human relations are his pet topics.
He took his Master's Degree in Commerce
from Allahabad 'Varsity beforc migrating to
Delhi. Here he was Assistant Warden in one
of the hostcls. Tales of his friendship with
the students and yet his inherent firmncss and
respect for discipline are still told with awe.
There was a time when he 'went out for a
night show with some students and after it
parted the best of friends. The next day the
students found their names on the notice
board asking them to pay a fine for being out
of the hostel without official permissioll:
This, it may be pointed out, did not dim Prof.
Gupta's friendship for the studcnts.
His views on hostel affairs are simple. The
hostels are the students'. Their lives are for
the students to live. The hostel funds are
for the students to spend. The mess is for
their cdification. Hence the students should
control their hostel affairs. The office-bearers
should act on majority opinion. There should
be 110 rules in hostels in a place like I.I.T.
Discipline, he says, is the main reason
behind 85% attendance rule. It is the only
method by which control over movement of a
large student body can be kept. But he
would be happier if there was no rigmarole
about attendance.

Having been to the States twice Prof.
Gupta is a grcat propagator of the Indische
American language-He probably won't admit
it, but his English is a mixture of the American drawl with the rich U.P. English. When
he was in the e-States, he learnt about Industrial Relations. At the moment he is bubbling with the idea of making Humanities a
fine art for the Engineering students by in~
traducing fine arts, and malting it literally
successful by introducing literature instead at
English language and Indische-DeutscheSprache for 2 years (N.B.: The Indische part
of Deutsche is courtesy of Herr Sarma of the
German Department). As a start, colour has
been added to the Department.
Prof. Gupta believes in student-teacher
relationship. But this lack of relationship is
the fault of both entities. A teacher who
says he has no time is talking nonsense. It
is also a fallacy to say that teachers are at a
higher intellectual planc. ,This is just eyewash. Students too should try to mix. They
should not take unfair advantage of their
friendship.
Ragging, the Prof. says, is good. Howe~'er,
he has been known to nab an innocent looking man in a much jazzy 'lungi' on his way
to the library (his direction of motion, inci"
dentally, was towards Ganga hostel) and
offered to take him along to the Director-.
The boy curtly refused the invitation but
found himself in Prof. Rama Sastry's house
pigging to glory. (The pun is intentional).
He does not believe in N.C.C. as it is run today-most indisciplined he says. One wonders why those who get caught for ragging will
be given further N.C.C. training?
Prof. Gupta has never been a sportsman.
He has dabbled in the intellectual field. However, his "iews on games are revealing. He
feels the Gymkhana should run its games
through thc hostels so that a larger number of
students can take part in sports and games
and that the Warden should take a keen interest in such activities.
Prof. Gupta believes in social events. It is
natural, he' says, for students to yeam ,for
female company and vice-versa. He ha~ no
objections to girls being invited to hostels.

From this year a regular colours system will
be introduced in the Institute. These will be
for the activities undcr the five committees of
the Gymkhana, viz., Sports, Publications, Fine
Arts, Entertainment, Library. Special colours
will be awarded for organisational ability. A
person is eligible for colours under more than
one head. These colours will be given to
people with outstanding abilities and their
contri~ution to the Gymkhana On the basis of
their p~rformance.
The" rules set are rigid and strict. ;But we
know the students are above average, and
many of than will get colours. Colour holders
will form a special club.
Weare sure everyone will try to win
awards: 'To seek, to strive and not to yield'
should be our motto.

(Col:til:ued from page 2}
Overh.eard at the Libl'ary
Asst. Lib,'al'ian: Where is your Identity
card?
Fresher: My Identity is in my Algebra
book.
Asst. Libl'arialt: I meant I DENT TT ! !
Fresher: Why did you cleut TT ?
Asstt. Librarian:
(s~es

*

*

*

stars-on a wall calender).
By ihe 'way the Post of Chairman of the
Warden of Councils-or whatever it i5which was held by a professor full of energy
(elcctrical)-refer convocation brochure-has
been rc;placed by a human (ties) man.
Well, we know you got really bored (not
dril1ed~ we hope)-that was the idea.
G. MAHAJAN,

n.

AlIIUR AHMED.

They can be seen at the hospital. TheY'l'e
sick 'Bye now,
(and p,ay later) ! f
This will lend colour and gaiety to the hostel.
FllIl fairs and social events must be organised.
The organisers will havc his whole·hearted
support.
At this rate Prof. Gupta is bound to be very
popular with the e-Students.
-GEM.

