CAM PAS T I·M E S

NEWS 'N' VIEWS

EDITORIAL
Convocation
.
The Sages of Yore beIieyed. that tam
before any auspicious occasion IS a g~~
omen. Were they alive now, t~ey ~o
have been happy to see their th~ones verified.
The heavenly nimbus clouds did no; shed all
their tearS. One could sense the rehef on. the
faces of the graduates when they recelve(~
their degree~ in the presence of a larg~
and august audience. [The CLT was the
alternate venue.]
This ear a' happy precedent. was set up
(let's ho~e) in giving the degrees In the .alphabetical order, obviously in order .to mduc~
more graduates to turn up. In spite of su~~
incentives the response was very poor-le~­
than half the graduates were present.

*

*

.;:

There was a sad lack of at th~ so-call:d
General Body Meeting of the Alumni Assn.-m
fact hardly twenty of them were present, th~
est of them staying back at the hostel~. Ma)
~his be taken as an indication of ,tb:e mt~rest
evinced by the'new members ?f thiS lllustrious
Assn.? Another topic of mteres,t (to, t~e
students) is the Alumni dinner. Smce thIS IS
a function of interest to everyone here at the
institute, we feel that it, $hould ,have been
organised on an all-Institute ~asls. Representatives for both the Al?mnl an~ the Alma
Mater should speak on thiS occaSion. Such
healthy traditions should be encouraged.

*

*

*

Hardly was the tradition set up before it
was broken. The students ~f the present
Final Year Class are responsl~l<: for a grevious error of omission in not glVlfl~ a .itar~­
well Ditmer to their seniors, T~ls Wl
e
taken as an argument for f.o~lo~mg ):>atches
for starting a • negative tradition, as It were.
But it is our sincere hope that the pre-final
class do not follow the example of the class
of '67,

*

*

*

PI'of. M. V. C. Sastti mentioned the other
day that we IITians are to be fouI?-d everywhere . • • . even on top of mountalns. ~ot
content with their wanderi~gs on ~be IIT181~
plains, Jai, George and Shneks deCide? to try
something more adventurous. NothlDg less
than twenty-three thousand and odd ~eet
would satisfy our heroes-and 10,!
ShdIa
and three others were no more vlrgm peaks.
The tamasha of shifting students f~om
Hostel to Hostel is complete-a~o~t, sl~lce
transfers are still going on. It, IS high tt~e
that the Council of Wardens reahzed that thiS
merry-go-round is killing the sense of belon~­
ing on the part of the students to any pat;tlcular hostel. It should be a matter of pnde
for one to say that he belonged to anyone
h:>stel. The purpose of this transfer sy~tem
is lost, since the isolation of the freshers IS to
no purpose as they are ragged anyway on

!Mt.

the sly.

*

*

*

PLAUDIT FROM THE PREMmR
Dear Prof. Sengupta,
The Union Minister of Education has
passed on to US tWo cheque~ for Rs, 10,23 6:°5
which were presented to him by the Indian
Institute of Technology, Madras, as the con~
tribution of the staff and students to the
National Defence Fund. Would you be so
good as to convey to the staff and stu,de~ts
the Prime Minister's thanks and apprecIation
for this generous donation ?

Yours Sincerely,
Sd. S. P. KHANNA,

Private Secretary" to
the Prime Mitlister.

None But the Brave
Very wisely the changes in the hostels had
been announced before the vacations but
none seemed particularly bothered-at least
not till they returned for the new academic
session. Many Ii tear was shed in the quiet
silence of the night over separation, many a
heart broken-and the latest has it that many
lost several kgs. lugging their stuff from one
hostel to the other. Due to the devaluation
the coolie charges were rather high. One
unfortunate lad, who had to shift hostels four
times, was forced to pay Rs. 1.50 each tiroe
towards transhipment charges. But then we
IITians are known for our fortitude.
On Romeos and Juliets
Even before our arrival here, rumours had
it that life in lIT, would no longer be drab
for those who were daring enough to make the
first move to girls. Various people c1aim:d that
besides the usual quota of three perIodicals a
week and the allied headaches, 30 girls had
been enrolled in the first year. One could
always spend one's evenings takin& a wal~ to
the girls' hostel! That sounded mterestm.g.
Alas ! these Romeos found their hopes dashed
to the ground when after arriving here, try
as they would, they failed t? find the. flocl~ of
girls. Some how,ever were a little more lmagmative and enlerprising and they were determined
not to leave a stone un turned in their effort to
find the ladies. Finally the bashful beauties
were located-in the workshop, filing away to
glory. Hearts went to them in sy~pathy! and
some were even ready to offer thetr serVIces.

Prohibition Proves Beneficial
We in lIT should feel specially grateful
that prohibition is enforced rather rigidly in
Madras. The visibility was rather poor on
the night we were returning from the night
sho'w and as it was rather late the driver seemed rather sleepy and didll't seem to be
bothered by the red light that loo~ed before
him. Apparently he thought that It ~ust be
the back light of a car. Anyway, qUIte confidently he headed towards the landmark, so
obstrusively localed in front of the shoppmg
centre, I wonder where we would be right now.
had someone not pointed to the driver and explained that the ex-Gajendra landmark (minus
the elephants that once ran amok) wa~ situated
in front and should preferably be aVOided.
The House of Thousand Pil1ars
In the good old days of bad king Herod,
there was a temple in Jerusalem, that had 803
pillars. If Freud ha~ been ah!e, he would
no doubt have contrlbuted val'lOUS psychological reasons (desire to lend a helping hand)
to the architect who built it. But both the
architect and the psychologist would be flabbergasted were they to be told that Alakananda
hostel is in no way inferior to that temple.
Considering the modern trcnd~ in psyc~~logy,
Freud would probably ascrlbe a dIfferent
reason. And while we are at this topic of
Alakananda Hostel, I might as well bring to
'notice that the delicate feelings of seniors
were deeply hurt when they found themselves
not invited for the opening ceremony. Someone argued that it was because it would have
been too difficult to arrange for the tea ,for
everyone, Who wants the tea, the sentors
asked. Our pride has been hurt.
The Long Walk
There is nothing more refreshing than a
morning walk; at least that's what .the chaps
located in the more remote hostels like Alakananda, Ganga etc. claim. '!w:nty minutes'
walk in the early morning IS Just what you
need to be thoroughly awake in the following
classes. Besides, it helps form the good habit
of getting up early. And those who have made
deep st?dy of p~anetary n:otions ~nd the fourth
dimenSIOn claIm that m hav111g to walk
6 furlongs they are act';lally not .100~ing ti,me.
as they are in effect gOIng back tn tlme. Smce
roost of uS don't have the privilege of staying
in such hostels I guess we have to take their
words at the face value. Mter all life caIU10t
possibly continue without mutual trust.

[April 15th, 1966

Letters to the Editor
Sir,
The time: 10:,30 p.m.
Velacheri Listeners' Choice programme
begins. Determined to entertain us, these
sounds which can be heard many moons off'
pose 'a serious problem. The sources seem
to be situated alJ along the southern border
of the campus fjrom Taramani to Velacheri.
To add to the chagrin the Velacherians as a
class seem to love repetition. Lord's mercy
on us, especially on the sO\1.thern hostels,
during periodical nights.
Yours etc.,
BIG EAR.

Sir,
The Gymkhana elections are approaching,
or are they? Wen, anyway, why not ha'Ve
lively electi?ns? Let:s have speeche;s, rallys,
banner-wavmg, promIses, more promises, pep.
zest and verve this time. Elections are no
fun when half the people don't turn up to
vote, when voters don't get a maha thrill out
of the powel' they are wielding, when friendship prevents a guy from voting for the better
candidate, when people are returned un~
opposed, when there is no excitement in the
air. I suggest that on election eve there
must be a public meeting in each hostel when
the various candidates extol their virtues
and pooh-pooh ·their opponents. Elections
for the class reps. can be held with more
fanfare. The talents of our trumpeteers,
Thadani, Khanna and Gill should not be
wasted. The whole crowd should turn out
to hear an the intending class reps. speak.
Yours etc.,
SUDARSAN.

Dear Sir,
Cooler cooler ever),'Where,
Not a cooler in use.
Yours,
THIRSTY.

Sir,
We, who are expected to take active part
in extra-curricular activities during the minus
half hour everyday, are not allowed anywhere
near the playable ground. Instead, we have
been provided \vith a vel'y scenic football
ground of small hills and valleys. One can't
kick the footban ..."ithout getting one'$ foot
entangled in the beautiful green thorn
shrubbery. One evening, while playing,
shorty stepped into a hole and disappeared I
'Ve were reHeved to see him clamber out of
the hole after a few seconds, his right hand
thumb ,dislocate&~
Moreover, apparently the markers have
sworn not to inflat~ the football completely.
When ,ve took the football to one of the
markers, he promptly showed us a conky air
pump. He then threw the pump at the feet
of the P.T.I. standing nearby and let out a
stream of abuses in Tamil. Boy!
Yours etc.
KA!{E

[I hope this true mourning finds a place in
the rag].

Charge of the Light Brigade
Whoever said that N.C. C. in IIT was a
waste of time? Among the many things
that we were taught, bayonetting was one.
This technique stands us in good stead while
trying to get into the bus on a Saturday
afternoon. No sooner does the bus appear
ill sight than the widely dispersed groups
begin to conglorIJ.erate; drawn as it were by
some hidden force. By the time the bus
reaches Ganga Hostel and even before it
comes to rest, a battle cry is sounded and
there is a ma,d rush for the gate. A push-pull
circuit is somehow formed and both negative
and positive feed·back occurs. Finally, some~
how all of us manage to get in and just as the
• right' signal is given, there is a desperate cry~
• Hey wait a minute, I have lost a slipper.'
The bus moves on. The driver has not-or at
least pretends not to have heard the plea.
A Face Lift
Recently IIT has had a face lift. Besides
the Administrative block and the library
building taking shape, bus stop signs have
been put up at various places along the road.
(Continued on page 5)

