April ,5th, .'966]

CAMPASTIMES

WILCOMMENS UNO

WIEDERSEHENS

of -,4ye-tlye

7lq

As a wise man once suggested, ever so
wisely-let's begin at the beginning, the
beginning being the ending of the last year.
Though a majority whistled off home
towards the end of April, the minority stayed
back for the NCC camp. As I was staggering
towards the camp, a 3 year B. Tech. student
grinned and announced that he didn't have
to attend the camp. Taunted by jealousy I
probed into the matter and found the reasonthe 3 year course doesn't ~onsist of any holidays. I am waiting to meet the blighter so
that I may force him to swallow his wordswith the punctuation as a side dish if he so
desires. Nothing much to sayan the camp
except that one night they told us to fill our
kit bags with our belongings. As was my
usual custom I swiped my neighbour's items.
Folks tell me I looked quite a sight when we
were asked to hike with our bags. Crime, I
know, does not pay-but it sure weighs. We
may close the issue by saying that many of
us lost a lot of weight and were affected. One
explanation is that the officers took our
strength too often.
<

*

*

*

The year opened with the good news that,
luckily for us, the freshers were not allowed
to rag the seniors. A mighty relief, considering last year's plight. After two months of
hibernation it was nearly impossible to follow
the lectures. We can therefore be pardoned
for our sloppiness.
• Trouble' was our unanimous reply to a
lecturer who enthusiastically asked, what we
expected when two perpendicular S H M's
with a phase difference were combined.
Neither was the suggestion that the Helium
atom could be excited by means of a Shelium
atom, a brilliant one. 'Give, 'us time' is
the cry.

*

*

*

The regular kni!lDgs and homicides in
connection with the allotment of rooms are
OVer. Latecomers found out that the clerk
had a soft corner for them-next to the
bathroom and/or the mess. In Tapti, a guy
assured a newcomer that the left half of a
wing being six feet below the right one wasn't
a legitimate cause of anxiety, as such was the
case last year. It was quite a rude one on the
Tapti boys when they found that before the
hois the case had been vice versa. The
Tower of Pisa is a symbol of stability compared to this gyroscopic relic.

*

*

*

We'll have to await a Pyramid-poking
archeologist from the Nile valley to open our
closely guarded bathrooms in the HSB. I
had to convince an inquisitive visitor that the
yonder room with a big lock was the dielectric
lab with costly instruments. After all, I
argued, who'd be nutty enough to lock a bathroom? It's the meanest thing since a girl
locked the bathroom during her dad's beer
party.

*

*

*

We expect the new year_to be fuil of surprises. It has been said of Cleopatra that her
variety was perennial 01' something to that
effect. If she ever follows our Institute
closely, she'd run to buy a hat, only to lift
in awe.
So far a variety of examination systems
have been evolved. We'd like to sec how the
3 exams on three days a week works out. Odd
isn't it, that we learn two nights a week and
prepare for exams on the other three?

R.
2

SHANKAR.

Prof. Krishnamurthy retired' from the
service of the institute on July '66. He will
be sadly missed by students and staff alike.
He is an institution by himself .••• and was
n landmark of lIT. The institute appears to
be very silent since he left. The Faculty
Association felicitated him in a farewell function with Dl'. A. L. Mudaliar in the chair. A
portrait of Prof. Krish. presented by the
staff of the Humanities department was unveiled on the occasion. Prof. Krish. marks
his association with lIT by the institution of
a prize (in memory of the late Mrs. Krishnamurthy) for the best performance in English
by an IlT student.
Prof. A. L. Krishnan joined the Humanities
Department as Honorary Professor of English.
Senior students are disappointed because they
will not be able to hear his brilliant lectures.
Campastimes requests the Literary Committee
to arrange for a lecture on 'Shakespeare'
by Prof. Krishnan.
Prof. Ramaseshan is leaving shortly to take
up a new assignment as Head of the Materials
Research Division of HAL Bangalore. lIT
willbe losing 3n erudite professor and a superb
after~dinner speaker. The dramatic talents of
the institute will be sorely depleted when
Mrs. Ramaseshan leaves. Campastimes wishes
them all the luck in their new assignments.
Dr. M. V. C. Sastry is back from Carleton
University, Canada. He Was on loan there
for a period of one year. His services were
requisitioned for setting up a 'Catalysis
Laboratory' .
Dr. I. Von Ruckteschell, First Secretary,
(Commercial) in the embassy of the ,Federal
Republic of Germany was one of our distinguished guests at the Convocation. He was
shown around the institute and expressed
appreciation of the tremendous progress made.
Dr. Seshadri of Seshadri Tables fame has
joined the Physics dept. as an honorary Pro~
fessor.

(Continued jl'OIlt p. 4)
The fellow who put it up apparently didn't
believe in using words. Instead, a ' to scale'
drawing of our buses has been painted. AU
the illiterate people in the institute should
feel specially grateful as now there is no
chance for them to mistake these signs as
kilometer posts.
The Taming of the Shrew
Our hero J aikumar insists that a mountain
cannot be conquered. Anyway the idea is
not to dispute him, but to congratulate him
on his achievement in climbing Mt. Shilla.
To many of us who had been keeping an eager
track on Jai's activities, it was a relief to see
him back in the safe folds of the !IT campus.
Knowing the mystic and Yeti-ish mentality
in him, we were afraid that he might meet one
of his brethren up in (the snows and forgetting all the charms of IIT life, decide to stay
there. Apparently four years' stay in IIT had
some effect on him, and he decided to return
to civilization. But it took him eleven weeks
to make up his mind.
COMPLETE THE LIMERICKSAND WIN A PRIZE
Complete the following limericks, and hand
in your entries to your Hostel Publications'
Committee Rep., by the 30th of August.
I So ! • said the Attender with glee,
I You've swallowed your pipette, I see,
And the Solution, I fear,
Is coming out of yOul' ear,
Said the man with the dome so bare;
, Don't stop, you blighters, to stare;
Keep working, you bums,
Till your" channel ,. becomes,
,

---------------.

Asked the Librarian, 'Oh, I say!
Are you, Sir, in the family way?
Or, do you only grow stout,
Just on your way out,

Judgement of the entries will be based on
their humour and impact and theh" conformity
to rhyme and metre.
RNS.

AN EDITOR'S PLIGHT
In our Campastimes office, therCil .. ,is"<
regular cascade of literary contribu ~::'- ..
some good, others only good for the W
But some of the contributors are men of
portance whose' amour propre' mUllt' not be
hurt, and editors dare not hurt it ,Hence
all the subterfuge and euphemisms. Th~
editor for instance, could not tell a sop.histic..
ated 5th year student that his stuff i$ .undiluted piffle or a poetaster that his verses
are so much moonshine, or that other bloke.j
the ever-flourishing free-lance, who thinks he
can write on anything under the sun, t!~;';.~
his effusion is a jumbled mass of J1i';1nllpr!!~,
But the editors are resourceful fellows and
many are the ways how they manage to keen
their contributors in good humour and thp~­
selves in a soft job.
I give below a few samples of lettersl .an
editor might,;write, returning MSS.
If you are la fellow of no consequence (i.e.
just another bloke) and not particularly
a ' persona grata' with the editor, this is what
you might get:
Dear Mr. So and So,
You live because you sent your poem by
post and did not hand it over personally,
Yours faithfully,
etc.
A budding poet received a very doubtful
compliment from an editor whose irony was
thiCkly veiled in a sweet composition, that
must have touched the heart of the recipient:
Dear Sir,
Your poetical compositions are bound to be
remembered after the names of Homer aneI
Shakespeare are forgotten ... ,but not unless
they are forgotten.
Yours sincerely,
etc.
Here is one which shows to what depths
editors can descend:
Dear Sir,
Many thanks for your excellent article. It
is rarely our' privilege to come across such
learned and ~nteresting articles. Much as we
would like to use it, we regret that we
must suppress our desire for it. It would
be impossible for us to maintain the
standard of our paper after publishing your
magnum opus.
Yours very gratefully,
etc.
This idea has been borrowed from the
example of the Chinese editor who is mighty
afraid of his contributors and it is only by
sending obsequious and servile notes with the
rejected manuscript that he savel his neck
from immediate peril.
e Most honoured brother of the sun and
moon. Your slave is prostrate at your feet.
I kiss the ground before you and implore
you to authorise me to speak and live. Your
manuscript has permitted itself to be looked
upon by us and we have read it with
enchantment.
, I swear on the tomb of my ancestors that
I have never read anything more exalted. It
is with fear and terror that I send it back.
If I allowed myself to print this treasure the
President would immediately order me to use
it forever as an example, and forbid me to
dare print anything lnferior. My literary
experience enables me to declare that such
literary pearls are only created once in a
thousand years and that is why I take the
liberty of returning it to you"
<

PETER FERNANDES.

We regret to announce the deaths
of Sri K. S. Raghavan of the Physics
Department and Sri S. N. Kulkarni
of the z/5 B. Tech.
Sri R~ghavan was the Assistant
Warden of Ganga Hostel. He passed
away, after a major heart operation,
in Vellore.
Subash Kulkarni passed away under tragic cil'cumstances in a swim·
ming pool in Bangalore.
REQUIESCANT IN PACE

