6

CAMPAstlMES

THE COW
(This is an extract fro';' all I.A.S. a,uwer

paper).

The cow is a wonderful animal also he is a
quadruped and because he is a female he
give.s milk ~ut will ?o so only when he has got
a child. He 15 same 11ke a God, sacred to Hindus
and useful to men. But he has gotfour legs to~
gether. Two are forward and two are afterwards.
His whole body can be utilised for use.
More so the milk.
What it cannot do?
Various cheese, butter, cream, curds, whey,
khova and the condensed milk and so forth.
Also he is useful to cobblers, waterrnen and
mankind generally.
~is motion is slow only. This is because
he IS of the amptitudinous species and also
his other motion is much useful to trees as
well as makes fires. This is done by making
flat cakes in hand and drying in sun.
He is the only animal that extricates after
eating. Then afterwards, he eats by his teet.h
whom are situated in the inside of his mouth. He
. is incessantly grazing in the meadows on grass.
H~s weapolls. His o,?-ly attacking and defendIng weapons are hIS horns, especially so
~hen. he has a child. This is done by bow~
mg hiS head whereby he caused his weapon to
be parallel to the ground of the earth and ins..
tantly proceeds with great velocity forward.
He has got tail also but not like other ani~
mals. It has got hairs on the end of the
other side. This is done to frighten away the
flies which alight on his body and chastises him
unceasingly. whereupon he gives hit with it.
The palms of his feet are so soft unto
touch, so the grasses he eats would not get
crushed. At night he reposes by going
down on the ground and then shuts his eyes
like his relative, the horse, which does not do so.
This is the cow.

THE BOOK OF PAN
• Wheeze'. • Pant'. • Snore'. • Zzz-zzz' •
All !hese frightening s~unds can mean only
one thmg-Ganga Hostel IS aslecp. The time
is late at night and all the inmates are conscientiously lending their own share in the
cl1;cophony of sound issuing.
But wait lOne room is lit. One enthralled
bounder is in the middle of The Sec01ul
Pa,t Book of Horror Stol'ies and is determined
to reach the end of it before turning in.
And it is !lOW that we come to the second
mistake in the sweeping conclusion that the
wholtl of Ganga Hostel is asleep. Here apparently is another fellow who is not.
He makes a strange figure, slipping and creepingfrom here to there. His movements suggest
only one thing and that is the height of Furtivity.
The figure is breathing softly, but quickly with
~xcitement,anunholygleamofpleasureinitseye.

Now he is at the end of the corridOl' which
is in front of the lit room.
Tippy tippy toe, tippy tippy toe.
His progress is sure, his movements noiseless;
one moment he is on all fours, the ncxt he is erect.
His eyes are on one thing only-the Iit rOOm.
He is now one room before the one with
the lit windo\v. He raises himself to his full
height of five feet seven and a quarter inches
creeps forward purposefully, stops outside th~
lit window, looks in and says in a sibilant
whisper • Come with mc-e~e '.
The bounder inside looks up; he sees two
eyes drawn close together, topped by bushy
eyebrows. The face is bearded and besides,
is partly obscured by a mat of long hair.
The Seco71d Palt Bool~ of Horrol' Stories drops
from his nerveless hands.
• Aba-aba-aba---!' he ·whispers.
• Har-de-har hal' !' roars Gus Gill.

C. K.

SHARMA.

II Selvice Serie5 1/6

Excessive oil consumption in worn engines •• ,
The possible causes are many - oi I leaks; vacuum
booster pump; may be worn valves, valve guides,
seals, and main bearings: or perhaps worn or broken
piston rings - if the problem is due to worn piston
ri,ngs or worn cylinder bor~s, it is time to replace
piston rings or pistons complete,depending upon the
actual.wear.
'

Engine rebuilding Is pfecision work-it pays to
do the job at a well-equipped garage with experienced
mechanics.

®

t April

15th, 19p6

THE NAME IS SMITH
This morning I was in a rotten mood the.
reason being that while I was rummagi~g my
old files, I found an unopened envelope,
addressed ~o me. I wasn't annoyed by the
contents; lt was my name on the envelope
that seemingly sneered at me. My name, by
the Way, is Smith, and here was some stupid
goat addressing me as Smyth. The cheek 1
I admit I'm a bit sensitive about that
wrongly inserted • y' in the middle of my
name. This sensitiveness runs in the family.
I tnke pride in my name, and although I bear
no gl'Udge aga~nst Smyths, I strongly resent
?thers ~ddresslng me· as Smyth•.It's the pride
10 one s name that's responslble for this
resentment, the pride that forcea someone to
address himself as Smyth, as it forces me to
address myself as Smith. The only explanation that I can offer for this ignorance of sur~
names-and an important one like Smithis that the bouxitIer doesn't know how to
spell.
Like me, R.L.S. was frightfully annoyed
when some Americ,an publisher printed one of
his books. It was not the infringement of
the copyright that angered him, but his misspelt name. • I saw my book advertised as
the work of R. L. Stephenson', he ranted,
, and lawn I boiled. It is so easy to know
the name of a man whose, book you have
stolen, for there it is, full-length on the title
page of your booty. But no, damn him, not
he 1 He calls me Stephenson.'
Yes, there ought to be a law against these
pirates of the name, who pi'esent the nameS in
mutilated form. I bet none of those louts
who prefer to call me Smyth would do so to
my face. It is an ;insult to the Smiths; an
insult to a family whose members were present at Agincourt 'nnd Plassey. at Lords and
at Wimbledon, in the Mayflower and at the
Titanic i .............. The name may be
short, but it is my own, alzd easily' spelt.
One case of misspelt names which comes
to my mind is tha~' of a malignant Scot po1i~
tician who spelt a rival's name as M'Intosh,
instead of McIntosh because he knew that his
rival would boiL ...•.•. as R. L. S. boiled
al1d as I bqiled. It would indeed make any
McIntosh'S blood boil. Another case, I can
recall is that of Jack Parts, a very serious
minded individual who happened to be a
private in the Army. It was the custom of
all the guys in the ba.rracks to call each other
as Private Johnson, Private Robertson, etc.
One day a smart guy called Stiles called Jack
by the name) Private Parts. Now Stiles has
Piles.
SMITH (S-M-I-T-H)

Tut - tut: Is this Smytle's wark-Ed.

Er ..•...•.............

INDIA PISTONS L1MITED.MADRA5-11

Ya wouldna ken aboot me if ya hafna read
what I wrote aboot meseH in this here rag
last year. But in that thar thing I mainly
toldum truth. Right now, whether I pun
fast ones or push slow ones makes no difference whateffer.
I sat meself before the broken transistor
and sorta swore I'd set it right. Sooner'n
I done this Venky c1umb up the stairs and
trotted in.
'Brushing up your 'lectroniks, eh?' he
says. Well, I looks round puzzled and told
him honest truth I see'd no dust so I warn't
brushin' nothin'. He gave a lil' guffaw at
this and says, • Let's go for a flick •.
Bov, it was hot (not the flick, I mean the
weather). The bloomin' walk to the theatre
seemed longer; 50 I says, 'It's damn hot,
ya see, so the road's expanded in length '.
Venky warned mel that if I cruck 'nuther
P.J. he'd turn back. So I swore I'd never
think scientific no n-(ore.
And then comes the shock (a feww zillion
volts). 'HOUSE FULL' So Venkey says
we'll buy black tickets. But I see'd no fun in
it 'cause there were no black tickets: they
were all pink.
And now before ya boot me outta this here
column, G'bye.
lUKB.

