7

CAMPASTIMES

April 15th. 19661

Scourge of the Monopolist
By

RAM SITARAM

THE DICTIONARY (Chamber's 20th cen*
tury) defines a monopolist as one who has
sole power of some particular busines~. Mad
magazine defines a monopolist as one who
uses both the armrests at a theatre. Anyway
you define it. I doubt if you could find
finer examples of monopolists than the storekeepers at the Shopping centre.
It is very unfortunate that we are so far
from civilization and its benefits (and evils, I
guess). It meanS that the normal red-blooded
IITian would rather go to the shopping centre
and fight than change! And, I mean fight.
The shopping centre is a bare hop, sklP and
a jump away i and under a single roof you
are supposed to get all your shopping done
(Bah I). There is a Chemist, a Book-store
man, and outside this roof, a Barber.
The average bloke d~cides to go to the
Shopping centre vrith something of the air of
an explorer, with mixed feelings of adventure
and apprehension. You may ask why the
Ah! You have betrayed
apprehension?
yourself as a foreigner. Anyone who hasn't
gone to the shopping centre can't possibly
appreciate the • apprehension' bit.
It's like this.
You have lost half-a-dozen things at the
Dhobi's. Thoroughly exasperated you turn
to the Laundry. His charges are exorbitant;
that means you cut down on the fags. The
sign says: THREE DAYS SERVICE. Tbis
is just a gag, of course. Delivery takes almost
five days. The veteran never goes there on
D-Day. It is a sheer waste of time. The
24 hour urgent service may take upto about
tv.'o days-in spite of this they ahvays do demand urgent rates. As the whole shop is con-

sequently in almost constant chaos and bedlam,
with cursing customers and apologetic sales~
men, it requires quite a bit of courage to go in
and demand your duds. The Clothes hardly
ever come back cleaner than they were before
they were sent. You stagger out pale-faced
and shaken, having aged terribly in the halfhour that you were inside. To restore your
spirits you hike to the neighbouring shop, the
Bakery. Here, for a quiet half-hour you
guzzle coke and recuperate.
You brace yourself for the last round ina,
no just the. second round. With clamped
teeth and set jaw you stride purposefully to
the Tailors.
.
You ask in an acid tone, • Is my blasted shirt
ready? '
He looks up, annoyed. The
ann?yance changes to apology•. • No sir', he
begms. The look on your face causes him to
gulp. Manfully he carries on, • No sir, please
sir, I will give it next week'. This is too
much. 'Dammit', you explode, 'you were
supposed to give me the shirt last week J. He
cringes: • I will definitely give it to you next
week, sir.' You have had enough. Your
one thought is to get out of there. The
moment you turn, however, he has forgotten
the incident; after all, there is no other tailor
nearby.
You stomp out for a hair-cut. The saloon
is full. You stare at the conglomeration of
humans within waiting to have their locks
shorn. You turn around and walk thought~
fully to your bike. You realise rather bleakly
that you didn't get anything done. You
• wind your way wearily over the lea, cursing
fluently both you and he.'

Alakananda Inaugurated
Yet another river has been added to the road
map of our Institute. On the 20th of July,
Atakananda was inaugurated by the Governor
of Madras, Sardar Ujjal Singh. But 'tis
strange, 'tis passing strange, that on a day
the Governor of Madras visits the Institute,
the main student body is excluded. 'We
could not provide tea for aU the students'
was a lame excuse- the IITian knows well
that man cannot live witbout bread and all
that sort of jazz. Let us hope that the
authorities do not forget to invite the passing
out students for the next Convocation I
But now, we must describe the openinglet us not digress from the manner in which.
Alakananda shook off its dormancy and slowly
me;mdered its course towards becoming a
fully-fledged hostel at lIT, bringing to those
myriad rooms and their inhabitants 011 its

banks, a new way of life-a life full of five
year plans to become a Technologist.
The tape was cut and the ceremony began
punctually thanks to the genius of the Warden
Mr. Mani. The programme consisted in
I. Tree planting.
2. Director's Speech.
g. Tea.
4, Governor's Speech.
S. Introdur.tion of students to His
Excellency.
6. Speech by the Warden.
7. Throwing out a few Campastimes personnel so that they couldn't get hold of a
fresher to write about the opening of
Alakanallda.
W ell fre~hers, Wilkommen to IIT Madras I

First Experiences!
We had hardly got over the excitement
caused by the pleasant surprise of our
admission into the IIT when we found that
we had completed one week of academic
work in the institute and at the commencement of the second, we were at the workshop.
We were eagerly looking forward to this
week, since this type of work was novel to us
and the change from the usual routine of
lectures and taking down of notes was most
welcome.
Being inexperienced, we did not know what
exactly to do and entered the workshop full
of enthusiasm to start off with the work.
Instead we found that we had to swallow an
hour's instructions before we could get to
work. Having seen carpenters and fitters at
work w~' were under the impression that'
their work was easy as they had used their
tools with skilful ease. Sad to say, this
was not the case. In our eagerness to achieve
perfection, we overlooked the minor technical
points which go into the making of a good
craft~man'. Anyway with aching arms and
blistered ltingers, to say nothing of sore feet,
we continued (has anybody thought of sitting
and doing fitting 1). We were waiting for the
.. siren to go and when it did-Ooh-Ia-la I 1
. 'We then made our way across the countryside
to the girls' hostel. The only consolation at
the end of the day were the oohs I and the
ahs I that were aroused by the proud display
of our blisters. So much for the first day.
Prepared though we were for the unexpect~
ed, missing brea~ast was not something we
anticipated. We hung on hopefully till about
7-25 and then we made a quick dash to the .
workshop on an empty stomach. It was quite
apparent that the Kaveri (with due apologies to
him) mess manager hadn't heard of Napolean's
famous saying about the •army marching on
its stomach'. The beginner's enthusiasm had
worn off a bit and the second day had a
trace of gloom. Just a look at our bruised
hands was enough to keep us away from the
workshop't but alas! It is not left to one's.
will and pleasure whether to choose to enter
or not. The turn-out of the second day
wasn't as bad as the first. This made uS
reconcile ourselves to our lot and gave us a
ray of hope and encouragement.
The third day started without breakfast
again, but then, one gets used to these things
in lIT, We suppose. The models we made
were far above our expectations but fell below
the standards of the instructor. The rest of
the week passed without any further incidents
but the satisfaction of having been able to
achieve something was so great that it made
us forget our privations.
The first 2 days of the Academic Week
were speth in a rather uneasy fashion as we
happened. to be the only 2. girls in the batch.
It seemed to us that the boys eved us with
nonchalance. It looked as if' they were
questioning • who the devil are these intrudel's?' Things seemed to improve as the
days rolled on. The saying that if yov. aim
at the skift of gold, you will at least get the
hem, influenced our thought.

At the beginning we had felt that we were
misfits in the workshop, but practice had
showed us that after all we were not as bad as
we had imagined ourselves to be. In fact, we
have even reached a stage to eagerly await the
workshop week-but most certainly not before
we have had a good go at the breakfast tqble!!
USHA RANGAN,
JANAK I SESHADRI.

