April 1st, 19661

CARICATURES

CAM PAS T I'M E S

--9

Shilla Conquered by Our
Mountaineers

Members of the Expedition

JAIKUlVIAR

A strange aroma precedes the appearance
of this illustrious musk-rat, genus ( . . . . ' .• )
If you think you can sleep peacefully -at
night you are sadly mistaken. You can be
woken up any time by this putrid creature,
leering at you from over the window-sill.
'Enna Da,' it says • 1 have obtained a
fowerfull dejine.' Before one can shut the
door, it slithers in. This sub-human species
is generally known to answer to the name
of Jaikumar.
Anyone who has had the misfortune of
lending things to Jai would no doubt have
Mter
suffered the tragic consequences.
repeated threatening, the only information
one can get ottt of him is C Vonished, Da.'
One of his sad victims is his brother whose
bike is 110W a public vehicle of Velacheri.
It is rumoured that he once crawled into
class (at 8.25) in his underclothing I
Quite undillUlted by the sad lack of mountai.
nous terrain in the campus, this ubiquitous
rodent is seen climbing hostel walls at all
odd hours. Tiring of this, he exhibits his
marvellous feat of balancing on the terrace
ledge. We need not bore you, dear reader,
by mentioning that this omnipresent creature
is also found on Mt. Shilla and like mountains.
His so-called I fowerful rocket dejine '
which. according to him was supposed to
reach an altitude of 5,000 feet, instead started
its downward descent directly from the
launching pad. We wont dispute that this
distinguished scion of the F. George family
reached supersonic velocity. His' lovvvly ,
rocket turned out to be only a pipe swiped
,from-you know where. (Jack dlsdainfully
claims that he made a better one when he
was in his crib back home in Virudhunagar).
The judges however seemed impressed and
he won a prize· fot it at the Science Fair. last
year.

The chairman of the Indian Soap Manufacturers Assn. has recently issued a statement
about the heavy losses - sustained by the
Indian Soap Industry due to non-utilisation
of sodium steatite by mister Jailmmar. The
statement claims that had he used the appro.priate amount of this commodity the industry
would have recorded bumper profits. While
C. Singh is being actively pursued by characters with flit guns, usually well-informed
sources claim that Jai's father has been
perseverently endeavouring to spray insecticide
on this elusive bandicoot from the air.
Of late, his interests have been channelled
into the field of dramatics, in a last and
desperate bid to ",,-in the admiration of the
fair ones. He is not averse to female
company-at' rather they are not averse to
him-after all civet cats in general take kindly
to musk-rats. Mr Mendel please note.
There is, however, a more serious facet to
his personality. His research" in the field of
magic squares has beep well received by
-Prof. Nigam and it is to be shortly published
in a mathematical journal. He has applied
his theories to diverse fields like matrimonial
compatibility and industrial engineering. In
fact his expedition to Mt. ShiUa included
astronomical survey, physiological, psychological as well as geological researches amongst
its multifarious activities. Though his grades
do not speak too well of him, they are no
reflection on his IQ, which could well nigh
be that of a genius.
Jai's modesty makes him refrain from
making it generally kno\vn that he is the
president of the • Society of Stone Throwers •
(SeCl"etary: Gopal Ramachandran. Minimum
qualification for membership: a bag of at
least five second floor window panes), Jai's
crowning achievement in this sphere of
activity has been the phutting of Local's
mobike head-lamp-from a distance of fifty
yards. (Actually he aimed for a brother
rodent-Kit-but that is another st01'Y).

George Varghese

Srikant

CONGRATULATIONS
(see Editorial ami News f N' Views)

