Vol. IV, No.4

II T Madras, 15th

Febr~ary,

1966

l'he Impact of Campastimes

READERS INSIST
CAMPASTIMES MUST LIVE
The many presumptuous technological·cumMastrological pundits of
this 1nstitute have for long forecasted the deom of eampasfimes.
Appeals through these columns and notice boards brought forth to the
forefront hardly any new talents. The state of affairs precipitated the
necessity of a study on the • I mpact of eampasfimes.'

V. SIDDHARTHA
It most certainly is. A person's creative
potential is not confined to the technical field.
In trying to teach so much in such a short
time, modern technical education tends to
destroy the flexibility of the young mind and
the consequent loss of agility can rebound and
adversely effect the creative potential of a
person in the very field he feels he is opera~
tionally most competent. It is essential that
individual evolution and the development of
the total man (01' woman) be unfettered and
unrestricted. One excellent way of providing
a medium of expression devoid of heart~
breaking competition is to have a paper like

Campastimes.
One cannot lay down main aims and policies.
These must be decided and acted upon on a
• real time' basis. On the whole, no policy
should in any way catalyse disruptive, disintegrative forces in the community, especially,
students and staff-perhaps one ought to refer
to student~staff in much the same way as space~
time; as a continuum rather than two separate
,entities. This does not in any way mean that
controversy should be avoided-not in the
least-but the • threshold controversy limit'
-changes with the average level of maturity,
intellectual honesty, and emotional detachment
-of the community. For example, it is fit and
proper for a Cambridge undergraduate newspaper to publish conflicting views on the
question of building a chapel in a college, but
,as yet, a discussion on whether or not the
temple in the IIT ought to have been constructed, might generate more problems than it
solves.
Any form of imposed restriction is contrary
to what I have said in the first para above.
Campostimes should, in general, concern
itself with problems of education in India,
technical education, in particular, with an
accent On student welfare, campus activities.
{by which I mean the activities of other
campuses as well). Women are a not insigni~
ficant pre-occupation with students (and
'staff !): it is estimated that more than I5% of
new graduates are either married or about to
be so-unless ditched! It would be worthwhile considering the possibility of getting
columnists from women's colleges to project
1heir viewpoint on matters ranging from
" wolves' to' women-in-engineering. This
will increase both local and outside circulation apart from be,lng of genuine service to
those intending to take the plunge soo,n after
graduation I Quite obviously off-campus circulation will be decided by how much off-campus
news Campastimes contains. '

1. Is Campastimes really necessary? If
not, dont bother to answer the rest
of the questions, unless you can tell
us why.
2. What, in your opinion, should be the
main aim and policy of Campastimes ?
3. Should it restrict itself to Campus
news, or should it be more general
in oudook? How could Campastime$
increase its circulation outside the
Campus?
4. Should Camp!!itimes' carry.••'oritical
and provocative articles? Should it in~
elude serious and intellectual articles?
Or, should it confine itself to being
a semi~serious, hilarious rag ?
5. Why is Campasti1lles not evoking
much interest in the staff? What
should be done to make the Staff
and Students feel that it is their
own paper?
6. Do you think commercial advertise~
ments will detract from the image of
Call1pastime$? Could the price per
issue be raised ?
7. Which sort of competitions should
be held by Campastimes? Should
prizes be given?
Ideally, Campastimes should not confine
itself to anything. Subject restriction leads
to literary claustrophobia and destroys the
very purpose of Catnpastimes. Most certainly
it should contain critical and provocative
articles. The characteristic of constructive
crit1cism is restraint while that of powerful
art is abandon. Articles should be provocative without being vulgar. But this is something that comes only after one has done some
writing and seen it ill print. Then again,
standards of vulgarity vary so widely it is
very difficult to lay down any rules. Once
again, judgement must be on a here-and-now
basis.
Campastimes should, I would even say must,
include serious and ' intellectual' articles. I
have purposely used inverted commas
because it seems that the word • intellectual' is
to the majority of the student body, synonymous with snobbery or' talking big'. It is
not the place for me to dissertate on what
constitutes intellectualism but the IIT is
meant to be the place for intellectuals,; it is the
place where intellectuals are meant to be
fostered, nurtured and looked after.

(Contd

Qil

page 6)

20 P.

The Fourth Annual literary
and Cultural Week
The Fourth Annual and Cultural Week conducted by the Institute is scheduled to be
held from the :ust FebruaIY I966 to the 25 t h
February I966. Despite prior notice and
repeated requests from .the Fine Arts Se~retary
for projects and despite the fact'a bribe to
the tune of fifty rupees in the form of the
first prize is being offered there are no takers.
WHY? Has the fighting spirit gone out of
you blokes, or aren't you Marwari enough to
scrap it out for fifty chips? Do you want me
to send back the princely amount to the
honourable Chancellor of the Exchequer?
P.S. Don't you also forget ~at the Ch.
of the Ex. is rub b~g, :: hi~" hands gle~fully
waiting also for the amount of twenty-five
bucks sanctioned for the the second prize I
May I also take this opportunity, to request
you, you book-worms to creep out of your
diggings, and crawl all ~he way. ~o the venue
of the various fuoctl0~',','.belQg arranged
~uring. the" Literary"Week; "'over' the. process
of. ,vhich your honourable secretarIes have
gone bonkers 1
PROGRAMME
21st Feb. All India Inter-Collegiate
Debate for the INSTITUTE
TROPHY

•• 5.00

22nd Feb. Inter-Collegiate German
Recitation for DR KLEIN'S
TROl'HY
.•
23 rd Feb. Inter-Collegiate Group
Discussion for PROF. M. V. C.
SASTRY'S TROPHY

••

p.m.

5.00 p.m.

4.3 0 p.m.

24th Feb. Inter-Collegiate Quiz for
RAO BAHADUR RAMACHANDRA

Ina's TROPHY
.. 5.00 p.m.
Inter-Collegiate Entertainment
Competition for PROF. R G.
NARAYANAMURTHY'S TROPHY. 7.30 p.m.
25th "Feb. Prize Distributio1t Da~
Judging of Inter-CollegIate
Photographic exhibition (competifii'in) for DR KOCH'S
TROPHY
•• 5. 00 p.m.
,Inter-Coiiegiate Entertainment
'Comp.etition for PROF. R. G.
NAR:i\.YANAMURTHY'S TROPHY. 6.30 p.m.

The MQtion for the All India Debate

"The Government and not the
Party must rule a country"
ELSEWHERE
Mani Und Seine Freundin

2

On Shocks-Direct & Alternating 3
Triumphant Beat.. X

5'

P. J. Competition

7

Cool as A Cubercum

10

