CAM PASTI M ES
."LASSIFIED
DIVERTISEMENTS
Giant Sized Dusters
Available in the Electrical Engineering
Department. Interested persons can go to the
showroom, ESB 34Z. (ECONOMY SIZE are
expected to be produced soon.)

Wanted
Quotations are invited from reputed Wood~
men for supplying one extra notice-board to
each hostel for NCC. Apply in uniform to
Major Jaffery.
Desperately needed : A nose setter for my
nose, who knowsVenkatapathi.

Voice Training
For 'How to make speeches and keep the
drum,' read the book by Major Jaffery.

Automotive
Attractive prices offered to liT students
wishing to sell their mo-bikes. Apply on
motorbike to Director. UT, Madras.

The Flying Club, I.I.T. Madras
Two vacancies are to be filled, for which
those interested are to apply on or before 1st
March 1966. For application forms, contact
Kro Kamath, Manager, Flying Club.
German Classes
Professor Der Kamadar will hold regular.
German classes, two hours a week, in the
Narmada Hostel Mess (after grub). For details.
contact Hostel Office. Why go aU the way to
Max Muller Bhavan? Don't miss this
chance I Rattle off such words as WinterschlussverkauFkaffeeschmuggellangerzeit the
envy of your friends !

For Sale
One lawn-mower in showroom condition.
No brokers. Contact
Owner
driven.
. S. V. Pathi.

SATURDAY EVENING
Reader, (1 mean, young, eligible bachelor
reader), what is the effect of a beautiful young
lady, walking along the beach road, on you?
These are the reactions we observed one
Saturday evening when a dainty young thing
went her way along the Beach road, near The
Triumph of Labour.
Modern and Forward IITialJ: I must somehow get an intro.
Doctor: Look at that Anatomical wonder 1
Observe the excellently formed tibid and
fibula. Even that slight kyphosis adds to her
bearing!

Studious IITiall (Wllo lias, by some fluke,
seen My Fair Lady): God made beautiful women for temptation, to see if he
could put me in a fix. But with a little
bit of luck, with a little bit of luck,
I would keep to Machine Design and
Applied Mechanics.
Roadside Romeo: Tweet, Tweet, Twee •...
Automobile Engitleer: The chassis is good,
the superstructure is excellent, upholstery and
painting jobs are superb.
Sir K. Depill: Ahel I recognize that girl.
I danced with her at the Ambassador Hotel in
Bombay last summer!

One of our Hi-speed Motor Bike Hel'oes
takes a sudden about turn, loses control and
takes off. He lands almost at her feet.
A Husband: All that'glitters is not gold.
Often have you heard that told,
If you see her in the - - -, Sir,
You will wish you hadn't been baser.
Her Husband: Yowl Thank God she didn't
spot me.
S. RAMAJAYAM.

MANI UND SEINE
FREUNDIN
You all do know the hero of the exploits to
be penned below, don't you? You know, the
chap who looks a chimney and puffs away at
his cigarette like a railway engine-the guy, who
spreads stories faster than Neelamegham
spreads rumours, and pills faster than you
can swallow them. You can never outsmart
him, or out*pill him-almost never, that is.
Well, it all started when a gracious German
lady in the campus gave me the address of a
German girl. Who should be after it but our
dear friend Mani? Naturally; if you know
him well enough. He pounced on "the paper
like a hawk; and when he failed, lunged at
me and raised such a hue and cry that soon
the whole hostel was after the address I
Consequently Mani did not get the address!
But if you think he gave up, you are
mistaken. For if he had, my account would
end here. By hook or by crook (the latter
more natural to him !) he wangled the address
of another girl through this one. I ought
to have known him better. Nothing seems
impossible for him.
One fine day (almost midnight actuallythat is when inspirations come running to
himl) he got down to writing the letter.
That part of it is no trouble, you might think,
particularly after reading Mrs. Rouve's Jitticle
in a previous issue of Campastimes.~· But,
alas, she hadn't reckoned with Mani. Pretty
SOOI1 he was banging away at my door-with
his NCC Boots.
• What happened?' I it:q:lired rubbing
my eyes, and found myself 4taring into 3
face as dark as the night and!\l pair of boots.
• I say, her name is Gudrun';.\
• So what?'
• Tell me, what's the !ihort form for
Gudrun-I mean the affectionate form? , Which wasn't a query or a request, but a·
command in the best militai'y fashion.
You could have knocked me down with a
feather. ' To hell with yo~ and your Gudrun,
with all the blessed affectionate forms in the
world', 1 exploded,' and get .those striking
boots of yours off my nose.' He left his
boots in the room, and c~c back .. ~. Come on,
tell me, please, and I won't disturb you for
the rest of the night.' WeU, one thing about
Mani. He knows which side his bread is
buttered, and can coat his tongue with honey
(adulterated, of coul'sel) when nece3sary. 'Get
lost', I was about to say, when I struck
inspiration for the first time in my life. 'You
wouldn't believe it, Mani, but it's "Gugu" "
I said trying to make it sound as sweet as I
COUld, Y{lU should have seen the transformation of his visage, as he looked up towards
the moon and exclaimed to himself, • Gugu I
Gu--gu I Gu~--gu! Ah, it's so sweet! '.
His face had brightened up, and I could even
discern a faint smile at the cornerS of his
lips. '1 shall write that down,' he announced
with a Napoleonic sort of gesture and
marched triumphantly back to his room.
It is about fifteen days later that we pick
up the threads of this story again. He Came
jumping down the wing into my room. 'What
do you know! I got a reply! '. I will not
reveal all that ' Gugu' had confided to him
(including the statistics!) but here is the
passage we're interested in :
• But I must say, 'Gugu' I never hear
before. Thank you. It is sweet. But people
call me" Gudrun "! '. Height of diplomacy!
But Mani got the hint.
But that was not the end of the I Gudrunaffair' as the Narmadites call it. Suddenly
inspired, I suggested: 'I say, Mani, you've
done quite a lot of German here. You know
you were the best in class ( !). Why don't
you write something to her in German-at
least a few words, She'll be impressed.'
After that there was no stopping Mani. As
though possessed by the Devil he raced to the
shopping centre and got hold of a phrase book
and dictionary, and pored over the contents
assiduously. No doubt, it sounded like a pig
grunting which is but natural when one speaks
German (Any comments, Dr. Klein i).

[February 15th. 1966
Any way he was soon ready to take off-with
a Parker '61 pen on a crisp blue I Air Mail •
paper and in his most attractive handwriting.
• Lieber. Gudrun '). he began (forgive him,
Dr. Klem, for he' knew not what he did.)
Soon came pricele'ss gems: r Ieh Hebe in
IIT,' : Ic~ mochte mit Ihnen rege1maessig
ueberelnstlmmen-(Correspond} 'ich will Sie
senden einen gift zu Weihnachten' (grammar!)
and so on-ending with a neat • Hochachtungsvoll '. It's a pity, Mani did not keep a
copy of this letter j otherwise Campastltnes
readers would have laughed themselves to
tears as poor liebes Gudrunchen did.
. It took Gudrun twenty da~s to rally suffiCIent control to reply to Man!. It was a nice
and long letter she wrote-but it was in
German and so Mani didn't even know where
it began or 'Yhere. it ended (why, he couldn't
even say which SIde was up and which side.
wasn't !). But he was too proud to admit defeat
(you know, he knows everything!). It was only
when he couldn't IO'cate the verbs (he expected) them all to en~ in • -en ') that he gave
up, and wrote an express delhrery lette!' to me
from his place in Munnar: '1 say, how about
translating the enclosed letter? Actually I
catch the gist of it all. In fdct, I understand
every word of it. l just want confirmation'.
I wonder if this i~ragi~comedy of errors will
have any end at a 1. Perhaps it will soonthe moment Mani sends her his photo.
BHARAT KA,MDAR.

Know your Campus

THE' GAJENDRA
CIRCLE'
If one has to speak of a busy or even the
busiest.centre in,ouI' Campps. it is undoubtedly
the GaJendra CIrcle. It IS 50 popular outside
the Campus, that it has even entered the
Tourist Map. In one of the • Know your
C:ity ',guides, the two places suggested for a
ViSit In Adyar are (a) The Banyan Tree in
Theosophical Society and (b) the Gajendra
Circle in Indian Institute of Teclmology,
Madras.
The 31'chitecturai beauty of the Gajendras
their colour changing with time and season!
the four milky lamps above their heads wh~
have come to an agreement with their respective Gajendras, that if any of them wants
a little rest, the corresponding lamp should
immediately be off (some two of the four
Gajendras usually do sO)j the tamarind tree
shade On one side and the bamboo shade on the
other, for those waiting for the buses all this
it gives the impression of the 8th wonder of
the world. A • tea-stall' and a I Beedashop' if pro\o"ided under the tamarind tree
will add to the finishing tOllches of thi~
wonder.
Somehow, the name is very misleading.
A s,trange~ would be surprised to find
nothl11g • clrcular' around the place. Neither
the junction nor hen the platform of the
Gajendras look • circular'. The latter, in fact,
has the oddest shape-as odd as the other
odd things in Our Campus. More fitting
would be to rename it as • Gajendra Centre'
similar to our Market Centre, or still better.
• Gajendra Junction' which again reminds
me of Basin Bridger- True, this is the J unCtion for trains leavmg for Bonn and Delhil
Recently, on one of the evenings while I
was coming to the hostel, I had a sudden
look at the board carryin.g the name of this
centre, and was wondering why it was !\uddenly
changed to
_
•
I was trying to interpret what thIS exactly
meant and from which language it was
taken. Only on close observation could I
make out there was nothing new about it, but
because of the power cut imposed in the
Campus, both the lights fitted behind the
board, were put off, and what 1 saw from a
distance was the board on which was
written.
r

GAJENDRA CIRCLE'

(Collti1Uled

OIt

page 3)

