February 15th, 19661

CA M PAS TI MES

CARICATURES

strategically located chicken feathers and a
considerable number of threatening yells to
intimidate the lady judges into awarding him
a prize.
To those who are acquainted with this mixed
apology for a human being, it came as no
surprise. Madhu's fantastic luck and unfounded self-confidence have hitherto kept him
alive out of gaol. Though how long his
escapades will escape the eye of the authorities
is anybody's guess.
His broad spectrum of activities ranges from
the pilfering of any object that is not set in
concrete, through regular visits to various
ladies' hostels, to frequent and inspired efforts
at committing suicide by writing slanderous
articles about prominent members of the
student community in this very column.
Perhaps the only reason why he continues to
make his own immense contribution to India's
over population crisis is that his size poses an
insuperable problem in garbage disposal.
Madhu claims, unfortunately rightly so, to
have an elegant & artistic (quote Madhu)
finger in every pie that is cooking in the
campus. The external relations and social
service committee labours under the crippling
handicap of having him for a Secretary. He
also fancies himself as an actor of no mean
calibre as his frequent appearances on the
stage I testify. The dubious distinction of
Mr.~ J. Cracker, Krishna Hostel was recently
conferred on him. AU those who have dealings
with him are however warned that he unfailingly gets his associates into strained relation
with the higher authorities while escaping
scot-free him~df.
In the final\~lDalysis however, his perennial
cheerfulness, keady wit and helpful nature
account for his~:wide popularity and make him
one of the mo~t interesting conversationalists
in the campus+-which however is not saying
much. As somebody remarked, • Quite a bit
of the silver lining on th€; periodical & assignment-darkened cloud of life in 1. I. T. is
contributed to by this otherwise superfluous
specimen of humanity.'

• Wathana,' howled the apparition on the
stage. 'Yahoo I Death to the periodical
system! Whoop I Eeeyow!1' The ghastly
sight was Shri B. Madhusudan Menon, B.Se.,
and the occasion was the Fancy Dress Com·
petion conducted during the Krishna Hostel
Independence Day Celebrations. Madhu,
dressed as a Red Indian Chief, or so he fondly
believed, managed, with the aid of a few

(co1ztd. from page 2)
If one spends an evening at this Centre, he
will easilyget convinced of the statement that
'life begins at 40 m.p.h. in our campus'.
Had there been 110 school nearby, it would
have began at 60 m.p.h. This is an ideal
place for care-free drivers to test their skill
and for whom slogans like 'Keep-left' and
C Drive-slow' are unknown.
Before I conclude this, I have a suggestion
to make. Because of its importance, this
centre should be provided with automatic
signals and the instructions clearly written on
them. For example, with the glow of a red
lamp, the signal should simultaneously read,
, Do not proceed) but stop', and when the
green comes on, ' Po I Man, Po! '.
C. S. SASTRY.

MAX MUELLER BHAV AN
Programme
FEBRUARY 1966
Concert on the Glass Harp by Bruno Hoffm.ann,
Master of the Glass Harp and the Glass Harmonica
Film
Show cc Bel Ami" in German
26th
MARCH I966

5th I9th
26th
31st

Ritha Devi-Indian Dances
Film Show
Mannheimer Trio
"Romulus der GroPe" by Friedrich
Diirrenmatt-staged by the Max Mueller
Bhavan Theatre Group at the Max Mueller
Bhavan, Bangalore.

'ON SHOCKS-DIRECT
AND, ALTERNATING'
Don't aSk me when and don't ask me whyI won't tell you. But if you are among the
lucky ones(?) who have witnessed teachers
frantically oscillating between the HSB and
the ESB at a frequency that defies imagination, take It that you have met one of the
Staff members of the Electrical Engineering
Department. If on the other hand you take
a sadistic delight in watching other unfortunate
•soles' at sixes and sevens with their books,
take a visit to your nearest Electrical Engineerto~be. You will find to your immense pleasure
the poor chap frustratingly knocking at his
grey (storage) cells for a discharge of ideas.
But be careful for the process is reversible and
you might find yourself at the receiving end of
a battering of work and heat transfer that
might give you the dubious honour of being
one up on Leonov (first comrade in Space).
. These are then those luminous personalities who go up to make the fascinating
Electrical Engineering Department. For two
years we watched in awe the grand majesty
of the ESB eagerly awaiting the day when
some amongst us would step in. But when
the moment came I was told they wished it
had taken a bit longer.
There is a peculiar inductive effect of the
Dept-a magnetic power that sends their
message down your spine faster and more
effectively than any RC (radio communication)
system you can think of. Their messaO'e is
short sweet and simple- C DOllt act t~ugh
for we can be tougher'. Their message was
generously sprinkled in what they called,
'Rules of the Electrical Laboratory' (Dept
would have been more general and appro~
priate). They wantonly defied all rulings of
the Senate, regarding a minimum of 85%
attendance-there is nothing called minimum
according to them.
A bit bold one day, the Students forgot
their record notebook. That was enough
excitation from this end for all of them to
start off in phase a firing-a fiting that only
stopped when they had realised there was
only half art' hour .left with the remark, • Its
3.30 now, and you havent started yet I I
wonder when you will finish! J Yet another
day found a palefaced chap who came in
chappals being sweetly told that these
types of • shoes > were 110t allowed in the
• laboratory'..
Members IPf the Electrical Dept. are not
satisfied with'merely defying the fundamental
Laws of Electrical Engineering like 'Max.
Power transfer'. One peep in the class
rOom is enough to convince you. What they
are teaching is beyond your mental capacity
and so I suggest that you forget it, and
relax. Let your mind wander to the finer
things in life. If you do have a taste for
dancing you will be amazed at the skill with
which the teacher convulses and goes into
raptures. If you notice carefully, you cannot
but escape admiring the swift changes from
• Manipuri' to • KathakaH' with a dexterity
that will put Uday Shanker to shame! If how~
ever your mind takes leave of these pleasant
diversions and comes back to Mech. Engg
(definitely not Elec. I) their movements are
bound to make you doubt the znd Law
of Thermo-the non-existence of a perpetual
motionl
Do not hqwever direct your attention on
the Students'ifor it might bring you closer to
despair and existantialism than Jean Paul
Satre ever desired. No matter whatever might
be their potential(ities) (always a drop, never
a rise: that's the golden rule.) They just
dont have the capacity to condense the
emotionally
charged lectures of their
mentors III
There is a simple rule about the ESB lift.
It goes • No admission without permission and
no permission without admission'. As confirmed social workets we wish somebody would
place it outside the department as a warning
to all those optimists who might venture into
the ESB.
SPYGLASS"

