CAMPASTIMES

[February- 15th:; '1966

'Fro."
Here and There

The Literary and Cultural Week
No stones have been left unturned by the
Organising Secretaries to make the Week an
unprecedented success. This function is our
most important one. It is at functions such
~s these that the true image of
is proJected. To do this the programme and the
organisation is not enough. The audience
plays a major role in the ultimate success of
the function. It is therefore highly necessary
that the IITians turn up in large numbers
for all the events. Studies, though'-entirely
necessary. must be supplemented by such
activities. Therefore, even if you have to
leave your hooks behind, do not .forget that
the organisers have spent a lot of time
planning this 'week, and have lost quite a bit
of sleep and study.
The Mess in the Mess
In this issue, we are featuring the mess.
This is because we feel that, for a healthy
and agile mind, a healthy body is an absolute
prerequisite. The mess bills are high and are
bound to go higher still, if something is not done
to stop the upward spiral. At the same time,
the food is indifferent, to say the least. A
careful study is required taking into account
the dietary, and calorific requirements of an
'average lIT. Student. Variety is the spice
of life, and thus a balanced and varying menu
is essential. A study of the menus and
kitchens of the NDA, or the IMA would
indeed be helpful.
At the same time we should not forget the
unhygienic conditions prevailing in the
Messes. One would not recommend a visit
. to the kitchen if one wishes to eat without
disgust. We have known instances of students
retching after seeing flies being removed from
the curry before service.
The servers, poor souls, lead a much more
miserable life. Most of them are of the
Students' age-group. It is only a quirk of
fate that some sit at the tables while others
serve. The servers have no living quarters.
and are forced to sleep in the corridors.
Not a moment of privacy is afforded to
them ..• and the wages they get are a
bare minimum.

lI':r

~

"

Letters to the Editor
ENTERTAINING
Sir,
It is heartening to note that Campastimes
has made its first feeble steps this year in
the realm of constructive criticism. But what
should be deplored is the I'ather blatant
personal prejudices that have been allowed to
creep in.
One such glaring instance is the remarks
.regarding the Entertainment Committee.
Perhaps a word of explanation \Vould not be
out of place.
In the first place, the invitation to participate
in the dramatic competition conducted by
Engineering College was not received through
the Institute, but by my personally contacting
the Arts Secretary of Engineering College.
Unfortunately this was the time when our
terminal examinations commenced. To make
announcements, select plays and dramatic
personnel. to rehearse and polish the performance was clearly out of the question. The
only possible way out was to stage a play that
. had already been acted by out students.
The participants deserve whole-hearted
congratulations for having put on the play at
such extremely short notice. The lack of
,aul:\ibility was no fault of the actors, who are
, all' highly experienced, but that of the sound

. It has been a long time since we saw a
decent flick at the OAT. Since thel'e are over a
thousand members in the Film Club now. who
look forward to seeing a good film after a hard
and monotonous week, we feel that it is high
time the 3S mm. Projector was bought to enable
us to see better stuff. If the choice in English
films. is limited we could at least get some good
• deSI fillums' in Hindi and Tamil. As the
typist is hammering out this column news has
arrived that the Film Club pl"og;amme for
F~bruary, reveals a number of interesting
flIcks. We only hope the programme will
be followed. Cheers to the Committee !

*

* sudden *hal"d work
Those who believe that
after a long holiday is a danger to the nervoUS
'system, have their sympathizers in a certain
department of the Institute. The scheduled
four-week holiday was extended by two weeks
for some of us. The latter weeks were spent
neither in work nor in pleasure. Going to
class ~ate .in the n;orning, keeping themselves
occupl~d In walkmg around the building and
returmng back became a routine for these
people. All play and no work makes Jack a
dull boy, they say. One wonders then how
after such a hectic routine one can get back
tOWOl'lt.

*

*

*

II:

*

*

That IIT contains the cream of student
society is appal"ent. While most colleges prefer
to get down to brass tacks in this final term
w~ here at th? ~!T think it quite unnecessary:
LIterary aCtiVIties, Arts and Photographic
exhibition, Sports Meets .•.. aU seem to come
only in the second term, leaving the first term
one big bore. More uniform and sustained
effort on the part of the various committees
is what is called for.
'
From the age of buckets which \vete used
as drums and squeaky mouth-organs. we,
here at the IIT have finally managed to hitch
up some sort of band. Hats off to the Beat-x
who added a feather to the IIT cap by winning
the Judges Prize at the intet-collegiate
Musical Knockout .
II:

II:

*

Group Discussion which for the first time
was somewhat like a Group Discussion did
not lack the element of unruly behaviour.
Gopal's antics (reading out Defn. of Hist.
from Dr. V. P.'s book, which he surprisingly
produced from the fold of his well worn shirt
failed to impress the Judges. One wonders
what the big idea is in selecting 8 men for a 5
man team.

*

*

*

Defying the D. I. rules, the Godavari chaps
made bold to hold their Hostel Day on a
1\ion~IlY night. All ill all the' function, Conslderll1g how quickly and at short notice it had
been organized, was quite a success, but what
stole the show was the chief guest's (Dr
Ramaseshan) speech and exposition of his
liberal views.

*

*

*

The Institute Quiz team, consisting of
V. Venkatesan and R. Neelamegam, won the
Saturday Evening Club Shield fOf the third
successive year. The former also won the
2nd individual prize. R. Shank.er won the
2nd individual prize in the debate. In the
Inter-Collegi~te Quiz conducted by the Engg.
College, Gumdy, V. Venkatesan won the
2nd prize. Incidentally, the Institute team
which has remained unbeaten this year. is als~
leading in the A.LR. Quizz.
system itself, which went on strike during the
first scene.
One consolation howevel' is that the Publi·
catiO!l ~ommittee despite its rather tardy
pubhcatlons got more than its full share of
praise. Perhaps the fact that the Editor of
Campastimes is a member of this committee
has nothing to do with this .
Yours etc.,

S. M. KRISHNAN,
Secretary,
Entertainment Committee.
(Continl/ed in col. 3)

Congratulatory
Sir,

Many thanks for t1;je copy of Campnstimes.
You and the meml5ers of your staff are to
be c0!l1I:limente~ for a very fine paper. Not
only IS Its qualIty as a production first rate
but its readabiHty and . sophistication of
attitude impress me equally much.
The article from • Higginsindia.' by Tee
Square was so good that we forwarded a
copy to our Delhi office as evidence of 'the
calibre and ingenuity of the South, Indian
student.
. It is publications and intelligent wit of this
kmd that make South Indian students the
equal of any student group and rewarding
to know.
Yours etc.
For the Director,
FRANCIS P. COWARD,
Ull£versity Programs Officer,
UBIS, iVIadl'as.
Sir,
Viva! Viva I ~uch flag waving, back
thumping, hand shaking congratulations.
I have just been through-indeed digestedthe Oct. 15th issue of Campastt'mes (did it
come out on time ?). It is one of the best
issues I have ever seen-and I've seen them
all.. The ~tandard, of humour is ab~olutely
terrific-pnde forblds me to bracket It with
the standard in them old days (how I wish I
was there now 1) but in fact it is better. The
British are known for their sense of humour
but the IIT makes this place look like a prolonged sitting of Cardinals in the Vatican.
I was particularly pleased to note that we
retain the rowing shield (in fact, I don't re~
call it having been returned at all). My per·
sonal congratulations for whatever it's worth
to t~e crew and to • Ebbie' in particular.
Judgmg from Jhe photograph, the river looks
choppy and it looks as though the crew has
been shooting their slides resulting in bent
backs! Tc)1 ! Teh ! but a hurrah, anyhow!
Nostalgla, thy name is Aye Aye Tea and
those limericks were a delight. Sudarsan's
cartoons are in the very best' Saha ' tradition,
the Calf Path not~ithstanding. With so mllch
talent bursting at the seams, I was surprised to
hear that December '65 issue might be the last
on account of a lack of fllUds. If there is one
thing that deserves to be supported, it is
Campaslimes. Go in for advertisements, raise
the price a bit, but for all our sakes, let there
be Campastimes. Instead of three prizes for
every Sports Event, why not have only two
and use the money thus saved for a paper
that is undoubtedly the finest among campus
newspapers in India and better than most of
those I have seen in Britain.
Yours etc.
V. SIDDHARTHA.
The College of AerOl'U1utics,
Cl'anfieldf Eltgland.
Loco-Less
Sir,

No one can deny that the last session has
been full of rude surprises. No sooner had
the' Saturday Scare' faded away than a new
monster raised' its ugly head. And, as
Doolitle would '~ay, this tis' the unkind est
cut of all-aimed at cutting away the means
of locomotioll of some of the IITians.
To add to the anxious wait for the results
of the Tel'minals and the possible reprimands
for obtaining a C where an A was indicated,
came an epistle, dreadful and foreboding.
Scooterists, motor· cyclists are rash, the letter
said; and so, a,s the Queen said, 'Do awav
with them' . With due regards to the mature
wisdom of our betters, it must be pointed
out that this is hardly a fit way of solving
such a problem. Trust the boys, after aU
in a few yeats time, a year Of two for some,
they will be expected to handle mOl'e important things than mere two-wheelers.
The main problems which, according to the
letter, arise o~t of allowing students to use
vehicles in the campus are:
I. Rash driving.
2. Driving without lights.
3. Towing of bicycles.
(Colttimted

01J

p. S)

