February 15th. 1966]

CAMPASTIMES

5

approach of the huge sea of hopeful nephews.
But the roles being reversed, one pushes on
gleefully.
And in ending, to let the optimistic motif
creep in, do you know who an optimist
is? Well, it is an IITian who feels, in the
first place, that it is sufficient to wait at the
Kaveri Hostel stop, to get a back seat in the
Saturday afternoon bus and, in the second
place, managing to get the seat, not have to get
up for ladies merely because there is no place
to stand.

-em.

TU BERLIN AND liT
Rumours find a fertile breeding ground in
lIT. Remember tales of a man supposedly
accosted at the open air theatre, during the
height of the Pak War? On being questioned
by the watchman he is reported to have
revealed himself daringly as a Pakistani spylafter which everyone lost interest. The latest
is about a cheetah l"Oaming in the llT woods.
Conclusions are being drawn. Suspicious
glances are being exchanged acrosS the Fence.
But still no one can say for certain who this
mysterious figure is, who Toams the night as
a cheetah and walks the day as a homo sapien.

*

*

*

When no one was looking, as Tz'me would
have piously said, a Sangeeth Sabha suddenly
came into existence in lIT. Whether this is
to counter the yeah, yeah atmosphere in IIT
or to nourish the soul of the music.starved, is
anybody's guess. The inauguration was smooth
and decorous, although during the musical
performance there ~eemed to be too much
talking and discussing in the rows .from
preci$ely those 'people whom we would have
least expected to indulge in this.
• Educational Trips' to local industry sites
and factories seems to be becoming an integral
part of student life in the senior years. This
is as it should be. But whether much 'education' is gleaned from these trips is open to
question. In most of the factories one or
two men are deputed to explain the various
points of interest, surrounded by IS to 2.0
students. The guide is hard put to it in
'selling' 'any information that is worthwhileeven then only those in his immediate vicinity
catch anything. Perhaps smaller batches with
the accompanying lecturer armed with
advance information on points of interest
would help. So much for the 'foreign' flavour
in the Cup, I was about to say but then ••••
'The latest craze,' smugly remarked a
friend from a sister IIT, C is to go abroad.'
Don't we here in IITM know it justl Ask
the final year blokes. As one staff member is
reported to have asked pertinently, • If all of
you go abroad, then who will remain here in
India?' The rest of the 399. 999 million, I
guess I The!'e is feverish activity, in the
senior hostels, the air thick with GRE'S,
TOEFL's and what-have~you, If I were
Uncle Sam, I would cough nervously and
mutter a wayward, • Whoa, Whoa' at the

As already briefly reported in our previous
issue, two distinguished visitors from Germany
came to Our Institute in December last: Prof.
Dr. P. Hilbig, Vice~Rector of Technical
University, Berlin and an expert in Mine
Surveying and Applied Geophysi.;s, and Mr.
H. Westphal, Director, Academic Foreign Relations Office, Technical University, Berlin.
During their four-day stay from 8th to Ilth
December they visited all departments and
had detailed discussions with the Director and
the Indian and German professors, acquainting
th.emselves wit~ the working of this Institute,
WIth the currIcula of the different courses
offered as also with the various problems that
quite naturally arise in a novel institution like
ours.
.
Prof. Hilbig and Mr. Westphal were, however, mainly interested in finding out in
what way the Technical University, Berlin.
could directly assist the Institute under the
Second ~ndo~German Agreement by lending
the serVices of professors, helping to establish
additional laboratories etc. They pointed out
t~at not only the Technical University, Bet:
1m, but. any German Technical University
would find it very difficult to spare senior
~taff to be deputed to lIT for a longer period,
I.e. two or more years. However there was
great scope for professors to be be sent on
short~term basis, i.e. for two Ot three months
to deliver lectures and to conduct seminars
and group discussions. Such collabOl'ation
already existed with France and the U.S.A.
, Knowing the availabilities there and the
needs here, we now know what can be done',
Mr. Westphal summarized the results of
their stay at IIT. They only ]·egretted that
the meticulously planned programme had left
them hardly any time to visit places of interest
in and around Madras City.
Campas#mes hopes that the Technical Uni~
versity, Berlin, will not remain the only Ger~
man Technical University to establish direct
relations with our Institute, but that others
will follow suit, eventually perhaps, leading to
the establishment of a German • University
Con~ortium ' .w~ic~ would not only assist our
Instltute untll 1t is able to stand on its own
legs, but would also promote a permanent
exchange of professors on a reciprocal basis.

The future being discussed
Left to Right: Prof. Sethunathan. Prof. Sengupto, Prof, Dr. P. Hilbig and Mr. Westphal

2

DJN.

BEAT-X TRIUMPH
It was no ordinary RepUblic Day. The
Beat-x took part in a general Musical KnockOut that was organised by Student Times at
the Music Academy.
Stanley Medicos opened the programme
which was 40 minutes behind schedule and one
saw a formidable number on the stage. Their
m~ic did not live up to their size though they
trted to. satis~y e,very li~uistic taste by playing
tunes In Hmdl" EnglIsh and Tamil. The
Stanleys. were follow~d br the ~lamingoes,
armed Wlth three electnc guItars, a p13nist and a
dru~er. Their concept of music was only fast
movlDg numbers and to prove their point they
played' Besamemoucho' at twice the normal
speed. Their flame soon withered away and
the audience's opinion was conveyed by paper
planes. The Mustangs mustered themselves
and stunne~ the audienc,e with their stage
showmanShIp and the sktlful control of their
instruments; flashing guitars and a saxophonist
p~oduced Itxcellent music and their numbers
could be recognised. The audience remained
,silent, while the Mustangs rocked away and
beat at their instruments with dexterity and fine
co-ordination. Having laid a high standard,
the Mustangs gave way to the unassuming
Beat~x. Their slow moving numbers were a
welcome change to the fast tunes so far heard.
Their music showed a touch of superior taste
and up~to.date rhythm. 'I could have danced
all ~ight ' and' Baby Beetle Walk' were striking.
TIllS programme was for the selection of the
Most Popular group by the audience. 'As there
was a far larger MCC crowd the Mustangs
were chosen 1st while the Beat~~-2nd.
Now came the performance for the Judges'
Prize and this time the Beateks preceded the
Mustangs. It was a grim tight between them.
The Beat-x started in their own modest way but
soon startt;d ' boasting J when they commenced
with' Summer time'. The music was slow and
cool, swayjng the audience. Solomon on the
clarinet displayed his talent. Ebenezer on
the guitar towered head and shoulders above
his predec~ssor and Jayaraman drummed with
gusto. • gummer time' was followed by
, BIue M06n' -though we were not feeling blue
and this was surmounted by 'On the street
where you live.' The Beateks ce1·tainly knew
where the hearts of the Judges and the
audience were and with their soft music
they knocked them open. Alfred enthralled
t~em with the magic of his fingers on the
plano and thus the Beat-x left everyone
speechless and full of admiration.
. The Mustangs came 011 and gave an imptesSlY!! performance. They swayed witb their
gUItars and saxophone but the Beat-x had
a slight edge over them. It was a crose fight
in which the Beateks were supreme, the
MustangS-2nd.
BILL.
Editor's Note: Yeah, Yeah, Yeah, You
did it. You did it. You did .•••..
Letters-( C01ttd. from page 4)
And, in conclusion, these factors are added
up to indicate that our campus life is disrupted
by these }mal~practices. A consensus of the
parents' opinion indicates that they are in
favour of conective measures such as the
imposition of traffic rules. But, to ban the
vehicles completely, indicates a defeatist
attitude. In addition to this, there is
another point of view. The procurement of
these vehicles was no easy task. And now,
~at the money has been spent, it is indeed
dIfficult to expect the owners to put their
vehicles in 'cold storage;. Furthel', many
students have proc1l1'ed their vehicles 'With
a special purpose, such as the desire to
pursue further study of German at Max
Mueller Bhavan &c. This rule would disturb
the ?therwise carefully drawn up plans.
Nothmg should be allowed to come in the
way of intellectual development!
I suggest that the Director should call the
students··concet11ed and discuss possible ways
and means of solving this problem. I am
sure all responsible students would like to
make our Campus safer.
Yours etc.,
IMMOBILISED.

