6

CAMPASTIMES

Impact of Campastimes (Contd.frompage r)

A campus newspaper devoid of humour
goes against the grain of student life. P.Jo's
are as'-much a part of us (need I stress it r)
as grub and a good laugh, even at the silliness
of the joke, is worthwhile. A man without a
sense of humour will, in the present world,
tend to become a neurotic. It is good medicine and for those who don't like it, it may be
forced a bit, but it will not do them any harm.
This problem has many facets. Firstly,
there is the feeling among the staff thac it is
infra dig to associate themselves with student
activities. Then there is the general differ~
ence in areas of interest particularly so in
respect of humour. What evokes a guffllw
among students e.g. Milkha Singh jokes, only
irritates those of an older generation. Very
little can be done about this, and then again
so many staff membe'rs as so absorbed in their
own fields that they tend to become tube~
lights in other areas and things just don't click.
I submit a three-pronged attack ; (a) Staff should respect the intelligence
and ideal} of students and never forget that
they too were once students-and in a philosophical sense continue to be l.'!tudents. They
should make an effort to' contribute to
Campastimes and regularly inform the Editorial Board of social events, Staff Club and
Faculty Association proceedings. They should
criticise the views of the students and take
part in the general debate and stop having
that patronising-only kids~attitude towards,
students.
(b) The Editorial Board must include more
a.ctive staff members and initially, it must
go out of its way to report staff activities. I
know that this is easier said than done, but so
far as I know. no genuine effort has been made
in this direction.
(c) A special column devoted to activities of
wives of staff members, their problems (how
dirty these school uniforms get ?-or household
hints to conserve water etc. etc.), gardening
notes and the such like.
As for students, there ought to be a law
fining those who don't buy a copy I Many
students are shy or just plumb lazy. \~7ith
the difficulty of anyday periodical now removed • I've got to mug' is no longer an
excuse. If the students want this excellent
paper to live, it is their business to feed it
and feed it well. It will never look after
itself. I have always been puzzled by the
non-involvement of students and could never
understand the chalta hai attitude. If
Campastimes should falter, the blame will
rest almost entirely with the couldn't-care-less
attitude of the students. It will indicate a
lack of responsibility, and lack of regard for
an understanding of the democratic process.
It will be an index of the extent to which
students are committed to their own future and
their submissiveness to drift and chalta Iwi.
I do not see the connection of commercial
advertisements and the image of Campastimes.
Unlike countries with large consumer markets,
advertising in India is largely an informa~
tion service. Most firms/organisations ad~
vertise, not because they face competition,
but simply to inform the public of their
existence. So, in case the question has, as
its background, doubts about the advisibility
of letting firms peddle their goods, it would
be well to remember the above.
If the subsidy to (on?) Campastimes is to
be brought down, selling space is the only
way out. In fa?t if firms d~aling in scient~fic
equipment, stationery, textiles and the hke
advertise in Catnpastime it will do the campus
just as much good as it does to the advertiser.
No, I dOll't think the market can stand a
further increase in price. U ntH it caters to
a wider readership and creates a feeling that
the readers are missing something if they
don't get it, a further increase in price is likely
to lower its circulation.
Campastimes ought not to hold any competitions. Referring to my views on question
I, I reiterate that COlllpastimes is an outlet
for creative talent unfettered by competition.
We have enough prizes of all sorts, including
some ridiculous ones, and I feel that Campa$~
times should be prize free. Besides judging
the 'liteIary merit of Campastimes' articles

calls for more experience and knowledge of
the English language and its subtleties than
can be claimed by any judge so far appointed
for the job. It satisfies the contributor more
if he receives the personal approbation of a
few than the mechanical applause of many.
What is mqrc, in the early stages the non~
recipient is apt to interpret the failure to
receive prizes fmm judges of questionable
competence as a rejection of his efforts and this
is'th~ best method of quenching the spark.

Cranfield, England

'.,

'

T. S. Ananthu & Vikram Rao
Joint answer to questionnaire :
r. Definitely.
2. Two aims: (a) to provide campus
news, (b) to provide relaxed reading for staff
and students.
3. It should be more general.
4. Yes, but the exact degree of criticism
(or provocation) should be under the strict
vigilance of the Editorial Board.
5. It should have a limited number of
~erious articles-say + columns per six~page
Issue.
6. Censored.
7. The price per issue should NOT be
raised~in fact, copies should be free if
possible. In any case, you do not get much
from the sales. If it is for circulation, in and
out of campus can be more and this will- attract
ads.-which should realise much of the cost.
Ads do not detract from the image of Campastimes i all campus newspapers I know of,
in U.S.A., including the Stanford Daily,
get a large proportion-about 75%-of their
funds from ads.
Prizes should be given to the five best contributors every year, and not according to
categories like short story, essay, etc.

Stanford, USA

Pradeep Mullick
It is indeed hard to say what is really
necessary, and what is 11ot.• No, Camp'a~­
times is not really necessary for, say, existence.
On the other hand, it is an excellent means
for expression of thoughts, and is a healthy
medium, whereby both staff and students can
ventilate their vi~ws on topics of their choice.
It would indeed be sad to do away with
something star-ted with such zeal, and which, for
a period of months, p roved to be quite a success.
1ts aim should be to provide interesting
reading and to ",ncourage expression of thought.
It would be a grave error to restrict Cam"
pastimes to campus news only, for such a
scheme would, in time, tend to become routine.
Interest will wear off, circulation will drop.
There must be something new that will keep
interest alive, something that will invoke
people to buy it because they want to, not
because they 'might as well', for want of
something better.
Circulation outside the campus is possible
only if Campastimes covel'S more than mere
Campus news. News, stories, yarns, cynical
or subtle innucndoes pertaining to the campus
will fall flat on I outsiders;, as did the exRegistrar's speeches, so popular at home.
Having circulated. Campastimes outside, to
increaee cit-culation, students of other colleges
and especially the women's colleges, must
be encouraged to write articles regularly.
This will not only increase circulation 'abroad'
but will also keep interest at home alive.
Since Campastimes is read by a motley
group of students and teachers, it would be
best to strike n compromise. To appeal to
the 'masses' it must be light, and rich in
humour. To keep interest from flagging and
humour ruuning dry, it would be good to
have some 'serious' articles too.
The symposium on Student~Teacher relationship did bring forward some response
from the staff. The staff must be approach~
ed-and probably, not just once I-and asked
to write. A suggestion of a particular topic
might help.
To make staff and students feel it is their
own paper, some sort of interest must be
created. How about trying some cross~words-

[February 15th, 196~
one was tried some time back-some riddles
or quiz~types I
,',
Commercial advertisements will not detract
from the ' image of Campastimes " but unless
these advertisements are of a fairly good
standard, such a step would telld to make
Campastimes a cheap paper.
The price per issue, should just cover the
cost. If it is decided I to give prizes, the cost
might be raised just a little, if absolutely
nec~ssary. Nothing should be d.one, at this stage,
to discourage people from buymg Campastimes.
Campastimes should hold competitions like
the Essay Writing Competition. Prizes should
be given for 'best contributions' but not
as many as the Institute Gymkhana was wont
to in past years. The prizes should be some~
thing coveted, not cheap.

Englalld
Owing to lack of space, we are not in a
position to print all the letters we
received. However, we are printing a
summary of the views received.
All those who took the trouble of answering
the questionnaire agreed that Campastimes was
necessary and that it also be a balance between
humour, Campus new,S and serious articles.
Though one reader asserted positively that
, Campastimes should be the first and only one
of its I,ind in India '(?) most agreed that to in~
crease circulatiOll outside the Campus it
should be as one of them put it ' a general,
balanced and entertaining perlodical I' One
of the readers suggested that interest in
-Campastitnes outside the Institute could be
evoked if every issue contained a page of
articles from colleges outside.
Opinions, however come into conflict on
the question whether the paper should carry
serious, critical and provocative arti.::les.
While some insisted that the paper restrict itself to being a 'semi~hiIarious rag', two readers
suggested that the paper should carry serious
and provocative articles but that these must be
under the strict vigilance of the Editor. Another suggested it was il. waste of paper if the
authorities took no notice of these critical
articles. Yet anothel' reader maintained that
a ' hilarious rag' might help us to pass the
time but in no way would it increase the
chances of Campastimes becoming a popular
monthly with the Staff t\nd the general public.
In an answer to wh)!. Campastimes does not
evoke interest among the Staff, one reader
went on to explain that the articles were too
immature for them, and assur,ed us that if we
did include serious articles the circulation
would widen. We would like to mention at
this juncture that among those who replied to
the questionnaire there was not a single Staff
member, which wCllt, to some extent, to prove
one of our reader's points that the Staff are
not at all interested in Campastimes or extra~
curricular activities. Some of the readers felt
that the enthusiasm for the paper might increase if serious articles were restricted to
four or six columns per six page issue.
Views were unanimou~ regarding the inclusion of advertisements which they said
would not detract from the Paper's image.
Opinions were Ollce again unanimous on the
inclusion of competitions in Campastimes, but
there were varying suggestions Oil the exact
nature of these competitions, ranging from
limericks, essay writingi poems and general
knowledge tests. There were once again
divided opinions on the question of pl·izes.
While some felt that they should be given,
others were satisfied with the mere mention
of the winners. Two of our readers felt that
instead of dividing prizes into various categories, prizes should be given at the end of
the year to the five best contributions. The
price per issue should not be increased was
the universal view.
Though a number of our readers came out to
express themselves, we feel that the response
to the questionnaire 'was not as enthusiastic
as the criticism over dining tables and the
Hostel common rooms. Surely if you feel so
strongly about Campastimes, the least you
could do was to have sent in your answers and
so help the Editorial Bbard ill making the
venture successful.

