[February 15th, 1966

CAMPASTIMES

8
Focus on the mes,

The Case of the Pestered
Palate and Tortured
Tummy
Returning from the winter hols with a
pampered palate and tucked in tummy,
Sambo (III B. Tech., Mech., admired as hero
WITHIN the precincts of the Institute) groaned.
Viewing with dismay a halfMbaked potato,
garnished with sickly cabbage; the familiar,
much insulted Tapti chappathi and the unmentionably lousy tamarind rice, our hero
ejaculated an unprintable curse. We, his
,comrades in distress at the table, nodded our
heads in silent assent. But wait, our hero
has grit in his backbone. With much courage
and restraint, he decided to make the best of
.a bad mess; (perhaps a wolf was gnawing at
his belly.) He finished his hearty if not wholesome meal and deserted us. Therein lies a
moral: Better a pestered palate than no
palate; better a tortured tummy than a
dead one.
The stuff I am made of is less stern. In
my mournful mood I composed the dirge that
.follows; a requiem to a Taptian tummy.

*

*

III

Indigestion harried my slumber deep,
,So I lay abed and counted sheep.
The mists of sleep descended
With the forty-second beast;
My cavernous mouth surrounded
'The hapless lamb that was my feast.
:Snakes alive I The lamb turned out to be
a Ram,
Which galloped thra' my guts, biml bam!
I bemoaned my interrupted glee
And resumed the thread at forty-three.
At a zillion and twenty-four
The mists fell down once more,
But visions of dinner yesternight
Scurried the nimbus left and right.
I wiped my brow of yellow sweat,
'membring the ordeals I underwent .••.
With dribbling lips I fork a slice of pork
But munch and crunch a Rhino's yoke.
With fortitude I chew a roti
Reminiscent of cow-hide in a tannery.
In panic I swallow the spaghetti-A l'estomac cl}flfusion in a haberdashery.
'The potatoes had the blight .•.•
'Ramajayam's map turned white.
The sambar was a horrid sight:
, I left the mess in deadly fright.
My vitals and my vittles
'Fought grim and gory battles:
Pork and gullet locked in strife
Lamb became a ram with life.
,Sinews and spaghetti with vigour fought
And tied themselves into many a knot.
,Of that nightmare feast I recollect:
In my bowels potatoes bump and ricochet ..•
'Tummy's sore, But prices soar!
And the bill jumps over the moon I

*
Something more than
*

hostels. This has ensured a fairly satisfactory
supply of milk nowadays. But even thi.s can
be improved if the responsibility for centralisation is not put on one particular hostel,
Tapti in this case. Tapti inmates are made
to feel the pinch because the milk supply
staff who deal with all the hostels, are paid
by Tapti hostel alone.
Let not my poem, wrung out of melancholy, hungry depths, drive you to despair.
Much can be done to correct the faults in
our messes. To identify the evils is an important step towards their remedy.
What we require most is a CENTRAL
STORES to purchase and supply provisions
to all the hostels. Advantages, to mention
a few: bulk purchases will reduce cost;
transport charges will be halved; accounting
and other clerical work in each mess will be
reduced and quite possibly, the paraphernalia
of managers, asstt. managers, clerks, asstt.
clerks, supervisors, asstt. supervisors can be
reduced (too many crooks ruin the mess);
a more uniform mess bill for every hostel.
Many useful suggestions like the above
have poured in :~A POUltl'y farm and vegetable gardens, if implemented under a longterm plan, will slash prices. Our campus is
vast enough to accommodate these and a
dairy farm too ,
Hygiene in the kitchen and the mess hall
must be improved. All the mess staff must
be provided with clean aprons and as far as
possible, gas must be used in cooking.
Dogs and other assorted hangers-on near
the mess must be eliminated. Campastimes
has already brought this to the notice of the
authorities in strong terms. Here goes,
again: Our beautiful campus is being over~
run by canines. Many of them are infested
with ticks and sores. The danger from rabies
is being grossly underestimated. One day a
gay young chap will shy a, nasty stone at a
rabid mongrel; an altercatioh will follow a,~d
ou~ gay musketeer will either find hit?snif.
relieved of human bondage or end up WIth a:,
dozen of Pasteur's deadliest injections in his
solar plexus. Then somebody will sit up and
start thinkin' and the city dog pound staff,
hastily summoned. The sitting up can be
done now before one of our esteemed readers
gets hydrophobia.
To run our messes well, stl'ong mess committees are vital. They must be free to make
reasonable decisions and see that they are
implemented. The students should have the
satisfaction of running their own messes \vith
the minimum of official interference, direction
and benevolent patronage., After all, who
foots the bill ?

• Dear Aunt Emma'
(Contd. from page 7

P.S. Why don't you stop eating at home
and try to join Narmada Vegetarial1
Mess? The grub is such that not
only your moustaches will disappear,
even the hair on your head will fall
off. Then your only problem will be
to buy a WIG. Heh Hehl

*

poetry is needed to
·cleanse this mess. What applies to Tapti
:applies to a lesser or greater degree to the
-other hostels. What are the ills that haunt
·our mess? Lousy grub and a preposterous
mess bill. There are other ills, not so ap·'parent. Inefficient mess staff ••.• some hostels
have too many for comfort, unhygienic cook~
ing conditions, poor service, and so on, ad
'infinitum.
A careful scrutiny reveals that there is a
root cause behind aU these evils ...... there is
'too much decentralisation in messing. An
independent supply system for each hostel
entails transport for provisions separately by
-each hostel; separate management for the
mess in each hostel with too many powers
'for the manager; separate purchase of stores
which if done in bulk for all the hostels, will
cut the costs considerably, and lack of co'ordination among the various messes in
various ways have led to this invidious
'situation. One encouraging development is
'the centralisation of milk supply for the

*

*

*

Dear Aunt Emma,
Both my girl friend and I wear spectacles.
Each time we kiss, the spectacles crash with
each other. In fact we have broken six
pairs between us to-date. Please help.
Yours
Spekbreaker.
Dear Spekbreaker,
Thank you for your taxing problem. Have
you heard of contact lenses ?
Yours,
AUNT EMMA.

P.S.

Did you know that each time you
kiss some 2S X 10 6 colonies of germs
pass over ...... so why don't you give
it up, you numbskull! ?

Embarrassment
During the Second World War, the draft
board caught up with a young man, and of
course, wanted to pressgang him into a GJ.
uniform and send him out to fight. Well this
one happened to be particularly reluctant specimen of valour. He cajoled, he pleaded and
he begged to be excused from serving the
nation on the war front.
The President of the draft boal"d was at first
puzzled, then angry and finally furious.
Giving the young man a withering glance, he
bawled out, • Wen man, if you will at least
give me a decent excuse, I migh t be able to let
you off.'
'Well sir, replied the reluctant youth, I feel
I will be EMBARRASSED if I join the army.'
• Of aU the flaming excuses I have heard, this
one positively needs crutches to get by! Explain yourself young man.'
Harry (for let us bestow this name on this.
so far nameless,cockroach) launched into his
excuse, • It is like this sir; that sitting here as I
am on this chair before you, there are two possibilities. They are, that either you will select
me or you will reject me. Well sir, if you reject me nothing could be better; but if you
select me there are tWo possibilities.'
, Now if I am selected, either the medical
board will pass me or they will plug me. If
they plug me sir, I, will throw a party, but
if they pass me there are two possibilities.'
He continued, • they are sir, that either I
will be put into the Marines or I will be put
in the catering and supplies.
Well sir, if
they put me in Catering and Supplies, it will
be great because I can make millions in the
black mArket; but, if they put me in the
Marines, there are two possibilities.'
, Either the war will finish before I finish
my service (and I get a medal of victory for
nothing), or I will be shipped overseas to fight.
Well sir, if the war finishes, I will draw my
G. I. privileges and' join an American Uni~
versity for free, buUf it does not, then there
are a further two possibilities.'
Taking a drink of water, and ignoring the
tough looks of the draft board, he continued,
'The two possibilities now are sir, that
either I will stand uf bravely in battle and
fight for all my wortl\, or I will cower in some
shell hole. Well sir, if I do the latter, it is all
right, but if despite the prevalence of the
human instinct of self-preservation, I choose to
fight, there will be two possibilities.'

a

• Either an enemy bullet will get me or it
won't; and if it does not, I mi~ht even get a
medal of honour, but in case it does there are
two possibilities.'
, Well sir, either I will survive the wound
and live to dangle my grandchildren on my
knee and tell them my memories of the war or
I will die. Well sir, in the event of my death
I think there are still two more possibilities.'
, WiIlyou cut out the 'well sirs' and the 'possibilities' and tell me what YOll want to say? '
bawled the exasperated board President.
Unperturbed, the kid continued, • the two
possibilities are that either they will cremate
me or they will bury: me. Well in case they
cremate me sir, it is: perfectly all right but
if they bury me there are two possibilities.'
Either a tree will grow on my grave or it
won't; and if it does grow at all there will be
two possibilities.
• Either they will cut the tree down for timber which is all right but they, instead, might
decide to send it to the paper manufacturers.
In that case sir. there are two possibilities.'
• Sir, either they will make me into ordinary
writing paper and then I have no complaints
........ but ........ just imagine Sir if they
made YOU INTO TOILET PAPER
WOULDN'T YOU BE EMBARRASSED! '
He was excused.

-c.

Singh

