·0

CAM :P A S TIM E S

COOL AS A CUBERCUM
By K.

K!.LYANARAMAN

there were two lUore hours to go. For a
change I decided to spend my time in Knick
Knack. I ordered a plate of hot coffee and
a cup of pulav before I took my seat.
Nothing of the sort arrived 50 1 thought of
keeping my mind occupied with something
till it came. That something turned out to
be the figure 8. Suddenly I had a whole
row of them before me (888888). So I began to work out what the number was:
I Eight lakhs- no, no, eighty-eight crotesno, no, eight hundred and eighty-eight trillions. • .....' I kept mumbling to myself,
until everything vanished and only One 8
remained. That rang a bell in my mind.
I had to go somewhere at 8 o'clock. Yes, it
was the theatre. I got up and paid a five
rupee note at the counter which he returned
most politely.
I got into the theatre and took my place
very near the screen. In this way, I thought,
I could concentrate better all the picture
(For if one chooses to sit somewhere at the
back, he can't help seeing a few 'peace pipes'
going full blast, blurring the screen,) The
lights went out almost immediately and I
could see something on the screen now. I
was in two minds. whether to call an electrician and have these lights attended to or
just be contented with seeing the picture in
the darkness. But 1 wasn't going to worry
about anything; just keep calm. Suddenly
I could see, on the screen, a house all fire.

I remember telling. you, when I met you
last time, that I have always wanted to be
·calm and cool. But so long as Periodicals
exist this is impossible. And this is just to
remind you, so that if any of you don't see
me as cool as a cubercum-I mean a
<cubercum-er, well, I forget what that fruit is
·called-anyway, so that you may remind me
to cool down. I shall find out what that fruit
is as soon as I have looked !.lp a dictionary.
That reminds me-I had to return a dictionary which I had borrowed from a friend
of mine, a senior, and which was due for
.a long time. So I stepped out with it and
headed towards Godavari, and as I was walking along I began to have a funny feeling.
I knew that I had to do something. Oh yes.
It was iust that I should keep calm. Well, as
I walked along I put my head in at a window
.and someone was sitting there, facing the
other way. Wait a minute, he looked familiar
to me. Hadn't I seen him somewhere rYes,
of course, he was the senior-the senior to
whom the dictionary had been due foe a long
1:ime. So I decided to enter the room. I
slowly li(ted one of my legs and placed it on
'the sill, and was half way, pulling myself up,
when that funny feeling seized me again. I
·decided to find out why I felt so and I
<stopped, clinging to the window in that
position. (If the I.I.T. watch and ward had
:seen me then, he would have fainted). Then
I knew it. Why I A hostel had to be entered
through a door, not a barred window, I got
~own and went toward the entrance with the
dictionary.
• Keep calm'. I scolded myself, Hasn't
the doctOr asked you to get rid of any load on
the mind? • He had. He had also, I remember, given me two Codopyrins.
. So I dropped the load that I was carrying
.and, without troubUng myself about finding
out wlia(iQIj~·. t~.had ' ~ropped" :weil,t:Jn at th(!;.
door. All that r knew was ttl,at 'J had gottell~- ' rid of a load-and that was to' keep me calm.
.
As I went in I saw a gang coming towards me.
I Here's
that fresher I was telling you
about', one of them said to the others,
I Quite a character,
yar " He then came
nearer and the others were now standing all
around me.
c uh ...... _. er ........ that is, I've brought
your dictionary', I said, and at once added,
, Sir'
I Eh ?-but I don't see it in your hand?'
I looked stupid. I started bluntly into
nothingness.
, Aw. hang it, yar,' said one of them and,
while a tall one stayed back to make me do
the I.I.T. salute three times, the others
walked away towards the road, Before I
turned to follow them to the road, I heard
an exclamation from my friend. I ran out to
see what it was and at onCe wished I had not
<borrowed that dictionary at aU, for he now
Photographs
taken
,
held it in his hand.
during the opening of
I You think you're helluva chap,
throwin~
the N.C.C. Building.
my dictionary about wherever you wish, eh?
• Let's take him to my room, yar. Come on.'
When I heard this, I quickly took out one
Above: Maj.-Gen.
·of the Codopyrins that ouf Doc. had given me
and swallowed it, hoping desperately that the
Virendra Singh inspects
.doctor's idea about Codopyrin being a panacea
the Parade.
would be reaUy true. It almost choked me,
'but it worked. I was getting ready to say
that I was glad that the dictionary was found
Right: Demonstratio~
when one among them asked' me, • I say,
of Tank Attack with air
'what did you s'i\'allow now? '
support.
(The:., .•. I mean •... , .I'm glad you ...•.
that is, the dictionary ...... l er •..•. .', I
stuttered, and the way they looked at each
other made me feel sure that they'd had
.enough of me, but just before they left, the
taU one added, • Meet me in the open-air
-theatre tonight, O.K?'
Open-air theatre was in my mind, and
·though it was a great load, I knew that I
couldn't drop it. I do not know why I went
-straight to the theatre, and sat down.
, Picture. , .... come .•..•• 8 o'clock. sar,'
-said a person who was working there.
I looked, surprised, at him before I realised

February 15th. 1966]
FIRST OFFER OF Rs. zoo GETS

M~PHY RADIO
Contact %63 Narmada.

What? Certainly I wasn't going to allow that.
I ran towards the SCl'een and shouted madly
at the cloud that floated above.
Suddenly I saw three or four volunteers
rushing towards me. They quietly dragged
me out of the threatre and left me. One of
them, I found, wa~ the 'tall' one. I took to
my heels at once, though jt made me a bit
too calmless.
When I was sure that the senior wasn't
following me, I slowed down. Ah. Now I
felt very nice. The cool night breeze was
what 1 wanted. It was very calm now, very
cool. Very, very cool. In fact-cold; (1 did
not know that I had fallen into our swimming
pool on my way to Ganga). You can very
well imagine how I must have felt. As cool
as a cubercum, I mean a curbecum, no, I
mean a CUCUMBER.
(1.'he resemblance of the characters in
this piece to any person, living or not dead,
is purely .••.•.•. well, I don't feel like
lying now.)

N.C.C. DAY

I

Edited by Gautam Mahajan, published by Prof. S. Sampath, and printed.by V. M. Philip at the Diocesan Press, Madras for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

