T h~ A 1:J.tli(l1nv;' _.~ ,_.

u.- ~ . liy as any of sumlning up tM'!ast decade.

These ten years ho ve witnessed the birth of an institution and the evolution of a set
of conventions whic7l will gradually ~?ecome a tradition. The fi1'st fine rapture is past
now, and with it the trials and tribui"ations of moving into a deer park and building a
campus on it-arduous, bu.t piquant. Already there is a pleasantly nostalgic
air about the IIT which 'was 'when Campastimes came into being-three hostels,
administration and library in the BSB, a dirt track of a road from the gate,
and a water supply that made last year: s d1'ought look like a cloudburst, A far cry
from the large and well-ordered campus which 'we now take for granted.
Leafing through the earlier v~lU1nes of Campastimes, one ne£ther expects
?lor finds a chronicle of the period. Surprisingly, however, tile general trend of writing,
the comments, the asides, the jokes, capture the spi1'£t of the times. This is not a
historical survey, and much that is of purely historic interest has been ruled out as not
being readable enough. It is not in terms of the major events, usually official, that 'we
want to represent the decade. Instead we have tried to show what life was like here
in the 'sixties, as viewed and described by some of the more articulate natives.
It has been pointed out to us that the articles in Campastimes are of indifferent literary merit, not justtfying the publication of an anthology. Even zJ we
were prepared to commit ourselves regarding relative Hterary merit, which 'ZlJe are not,
we would retort that literary merit is not the primary criterion of this anthology any
more than historical interest. liVe looked for pieces with a certain significance, a
certain standard of writing, and, above all, a high level of general interest and
readability. In other words, we chose the articles which we liked best, for in the last
analysis, that is the only basis on which one can make an honest choice. ~Ve hope
you will like them, too. TiVhether they are of literary merit or not, we will leave you
to decide.

Campastimes has usually stayed happily on the lighter side of things,
though with undertones of seriousness. If, glancing through this selection, you are
able to think, ' It was fun I, or, in another tense, ' It must have been fun', we feel 'We
have come part of the way. But we have also tried to epitomise the spirit of an age,
'which is rather more difficult. And if you catch even a faint whiff of this elusive
!rasrance, we shall have succeeded beyond our expectations.

