-s· ·<.-

liT

NEWS & VIEWS
SURJIT RANDHAVA.

On August 2, 1962, all the professors of
·our Institute . .vere informed that Dr
A. N. Khosla, member of the Planning
Commission, and Director of the National
Institute of Sciences of India, would be visi"ting the lIT on the 4th morning.
Subsequently on the third, Dr M. V. C.
:Sastri was at the airport to receive the important visitor, Dr A. N. Khosla being a
-Governor-designate, the Raj Bhavan car was
already waiting for him. As soon as one
important looking person got off the plane,
:and moved towards the waiting car, Dr
.Sastri approached him and requested him to
visit the Institute the following morning.
Came the fourth morning. Sharply at nine
'a big car drew up,and out stepped an impres-sive-Iooking gentleman dressed in khadi. He
was immediately taken to the Director's
·office, and Mr Ramaswamy proceeded to
-explain the layout of the Institute. Slightly
raised brows could be observed when the distinguished guest wanted to know when the
Institute was actually started, but an explanation was soon found: he wanted to test the
'professor's memory. Brows, however, were
raised to their maximum extent when he
'showed a stern disinclination to visit the
workshops. Even Dr Kraus' cajoling, , But
they are very nice, and the machines are
very modern,' aroused next to no enthusiasm
in Dr Khosla who would rather visit the
hostels.
During tea-or should we say: lingering
·over a glass of fruit juice, Professor Sampath,
-disturbed by misgivings, cautiously began to
tap Dr Khosla's secretary and the information
'he eventually received caused a near furore.
Dr A. N. Khosla was actually Sri Mehdi
Nawaz Jung, Governor of Gujerat and Chair'man of the General Lalit Kala Akademi. Too
late to put those-wise, who took the wrong
Dr Khosla through laboratories and workshops.
_
As luck would have it, a few minutes later·
the real. Dr Khosla arrived. There were not
many people left to receive him, but the credit goes to Mr Dubay for having brought
the situation under control.
The day was saved by the canteen people
'producing, somehow or other, a fresh plate of
-sandwiches. Rumours saying that these were
the leftovers of the previous party have to be rejected as libellous.
Moral: never be in a hurry to meet a guest.
Let him come up to you.
In light of the all-too-frequent power
breakdowns, Sarosh Talukdar most wisely
-remarked that the height of frustration is
:studying for a Transmission and Distribution
examination by candle light.
Qne half of the Gymkhana notice boards
in the Civil Engineering Block tens me that I
-owe Rs. 1.40 for blueprints, that a symposiwn of leather technology was held in the
-first week of August, and that on the third
of the same month, I was granted a day's
'leave.
Since when, may I ask, has the
-Gymkhana extended its activities to all these
'fields?
A lot of haze and dust disappeared from
the atmosphere when we saw the last of
the terminal examinations. There is no denying the fact that two tests a day were enough
-to sap the life out of the bravest. After a few
-of them, one just carried on in a sort of

MADRAS
Sir,

(ampas ames

<'(]

It\

f '1 :>fi

!1\

~ ;-

[OmpDstimes

Cd mp(!lgi9ime8
~mu
Birth of your "Camp"-"Pastimes"

I am !tappy to say that our appeal has
met With some response~I am not
politician enough to use the word
, Overwhelming '-making the future of
Campastimes a little brighter. It is on
the way to becoming your monthly with
every new name added to those that are
well-known by now, too well-known, as
some off-stage critics recently remarked.

Nothing against critics and their
c!iticism. On the contrary, we intentlOnally invite th:!m to voice their
opinions. But why off-stage? Campastillles
has reserved space for them, unlimited
(and uncensored) space. Why take a
member of our Board aside with a hushhush' Boy, Two Views was the best you
ever brought out' or 'You know, that
Editorial was a stinker'? Is it that
much trouble to sit down and write us
a letter saying what you appreciated and
I am sure you
what you didn't?
wouldn't hesitate a minute to pen out a
. two-page letter (single space), if your
landlord accused you of having ruined
his walls by driving ten-inch nails into
them at random (which, of course, you
haven't).

It is with the sole privilege of being an
II'l'ian that the author has expressed the
following opinions (entirely opinions and
nothing else) as to the exact places in the
structure of Campastimes where cracks have
developed-and having spotted these localities
of failure it is sincerely hoped that remedial
measures could easily be taken.
Campastil1les, has now developed into a
veritable battlefield where constant personal
accusations and counter-a~cusations have a
free play-where A could evoke B's embarrassment to make C (and sometimes, very rarely
D) have his share of cynicai laughter-with
total and complete disregard to the gaping
ignorance of the other seventeen hundred
readers who1. endeavour to uphold the legacy of
the IITian spirit,
2. endeavour to direct the high quality
IITian sense of humour along
proper channels,
3. endeavour to keep alive this cat-onthe-fence, non-profit making (loss
making) item, and
4. to curl up in bed and enjoy such good
-reading.
.
The editorial people, one should realize, are
not at fault at all. It is you and I as readers
and contributors, who must grasp the coat and
jump out of this unbecoming rut, without
further delay.
There is an utter lack of contributions and
this is the obvious reason for the poor quality
of the articles-a hungry man has to eat whatever he gets. AU articles-irrespective of
their quality, implications, spirit, decorum
or any other factor, are necessarily plunged
into the press and onto the paper. This is
also the reason why the Local of page one,
becomes his true self on the second, an
Englishman 'o n the third, a drawing instrument
on the fourth, a Greek letter on the fifth and
so on.
Surely the IlTian does not require lectures
on right and 'wrong, surely the IITian does
not require the coaxing of his mummy to take
positive steps towards improvement, and
surely the IITian can show this to the outside
world?

B. Ai\1IR A.HMED.

Your criticism is just as valuable for
us as your contributions. So don't
hesitate and send us your Letter to the
Editor.
Yours etc.,
The Publisher.

daze. A remarkable capacity for switching the
brain from one topic to another was required.
To cite an eXample, mornings my mind was
crammed with Moorish influence on Spanish
architecture, and probably natural frequencies of engine crankshafts, whereas afternoons
found me turning my beacon towards
pentodes, crane hooks, and things like that.
- I am afraid that this being the end of the
year as far as we all are concerned, I have
just about run -out of everything to put down.
I'll sound off by wishing everybody the best
of luck in the annual branding and slaughter.

We always welcome your suggestions

The Staff, 'eampasfimes'

