CAMPASTIMES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~---

[GQPe started writing relatively late ill his incarceration ill tltis vale of
tears. But once he got going, he went at it hammer and tQllgS, and
caricatured just about anybody who was good for a few laughs. TheIl he
tried his hand at tuming out 'the Cup, and met with comiderable success.
Editors had an easy time with Jzim: he coughed up as mauy coluInns as
were demanded of him well in time to catch the {Jver overdue issues. He
even did his own proof-reading, but then, he aimed at perfeetiO/t. A
vanishing breed, his.]
It was a beautiful morning back in 1963wet grass, dew-laden flowers and all the rest
()f the poet stuff. The cattle from Vdacheri
and Taramani were walking along lazily down
the path behind Tapti Hostel to the milking
shed. Behind groups of them came the
milkmaids in-Charge. It was a morning to
warm the heart. If you could throw in a
lone flute-player, sitting with his back
against a tree, Bb.avanagari could shoot a
couple of documentaries for the Films
Division right there.
Sudde'nly the morning air was filled with
the scream of a frightened woman (just like in
movies). Frightened women, .as a rule,
scream and let it go at that. But our heroine
was no run-of-the-mill woman-after the
scream she let fly enough bad language in 5
-minutes to last an ordinary man half his
lifetime.
Now it had come to pass that just about
the time the milkmaids \vcre approaching ,
Tapti, Ponniah Moses Vedamanikkam had
woken up, like Abu Ben Adam, from a
deep dream of peace, stood up, stretched
and decided to 100kats6mething beautiful,
heart-warming and cheer:y, So ,he went over
to his mirror and gave ' h~mself 'a once-over
.,
from top to toe.
He felt that he could easily mix without
comment in a gathering of Adonis, Eros and
such other Greek gods . . That is, if he
happened to be passing by when, such a
meeting \vas in progress they would roll out
the red carpet, sound the trumpets, .fire the
gun-salute and welcome him in as one of 'the
boys'. Perhaps you don't know it but there is
a club the members of which go around believing that Moses looks like Steve Reeves below
his neck and Omar Shariff above. As far as I
know it has only one member. Dun't get me
wrong-I'm not saying that Moses is a narcissist-,-it's just that he dislikes a hotwater
bath, because it douds the bathroom mirror.
Moses decided that he w0uld look infinitely
hotter with a V-shaped torso. When he
walked down the aisle in his churCh, he
wanted people to gasp and say that there went
a man with a V-shape . V-shapes don' t grow
on trees. To commission one you have to do
a lot of corny exercises and Moses decided to
start right away. ' I will not go to Church for
the next three months', he mused, 'And by
then, by God, I will have a V-5hape.'
Then dressed after a fashion popularised
by the natives of certain South Sea islands,
posing for the National Geographic, Moses
climbed to the head of his bc'd and holding
onto the window-bars. started doing a sort of
vertical push-ups. If Shdley were to pass him
then, he would have said, ' Hail to thee, Blithe
Spirit', and he would have meant it.
Milkmaids are people of the world. They
can take nasty thing,; of life in their stride.
But they draw the line somewhere-and having
tosee underc10thed undcrgrads hanging about
the window-bars early in the morning, doing
informal stooge acts, is one place they felt a
line, ought be drawn. If it was you or I who

II r GYMkHAtJA
p~.(:

Arlnouhtl'l19

Hrde1

/0·2 ,21··

r~reJlL,

-iI/ell/(, Ctj Tht

5H~~m~l)~ PocJ- ..

PONNIAH MOSES

VEDAMANIKKAM

3

by CSope

had passed him we would probably have gone
Shakespearian and said, ' What bloody manner
of man is this?' but milkmaids, like I was
saying, scream and yell.
In the days before Moses began spending
his surpllls'~nergy building V-shapes he was
accustomed to borrow bikes and go for long
rides. He was returning from one on a Saturday afternoon and found ·a hordeof cars parked
outside his hostel. It was the parents coming
to collect the kiddos for the 'week-end. When
parents come to boys' . hostels to, collect the
boys, it is ,inevitable that the sisters and
other girls in the family tag along. Moses
saw the girls . . He Jooked again ...• there
was no mistaking the. invitations in their eyes,
he felt.
So he began to pedal with renewed yigour.
What little V-shape had been, built,up was
put up for show. Then, drawing in ,his
paunch to accentuate the V, he began,pedalling,
down the 45° .incline towards Tapti. .'
,
By now Mos.es and bike were just a, :ftash
well down the incline. Moses was still
watching the girls and the girls werewatchi;lg
Moses' antics . .. He was wondering what the
girls would have been thinking of him. They
would probably be saying to themselves, ' My
hero' I thought Moses applying the brakes.
The bike had no brakes. In the hurried
affair that life has b~come these days, people
often forget to mention such trivials.
There was time only for his' face to regist;;r
surprise and then horror. Then it was all over.
The granite wall which had been looking forward to a peaceful week-end met the tyre, steel
and Moses' head in rapid succession. The
front wheel of the bike met ·the chain-guard
and by now Moses had gone over the. wall
and met a few bikes parked there, and they
all met the good earth. (Such a lot of social
activity in such a short time, no 1) Anyway
he picked himself up, with the air of a man
who can be checked-yes, but vanquished,
never, and though he felt ,like ,something
excavated from the t omb .of one of fIie earlier
Ptolemies, he puffed up his chest and , made
way to his room where he collapsed.
Which all goes to show that there are ways
and ways of impressing pe_oplc.
,
Moses is a citizen of:Toothukodi and is
quite a man-about-town there-at least ever
since the annual binge of the palmyrah
climbers back in 1964 where, I'm told, he won
the Junior'S at toddy tapping.
Befo're I forget, do you know how girls
get colds? Showers and rains and all things
wet? No, says Moses. If girl A has a cold,
it must be because he was talking to A's
friend B, and A saw that and went and cried
herself to sleep, waking up the ne:<t morning
with a nasty cold.
It is past midnight. Moses is in bed reading the latest James Hadley Chase. On the
cover is the usual picture of a murdered girl,
in bikini, lying in an open grave. Moses
closes the book and looks at the girl. Oh my
God, he thinks, there is no mistaking the
invitation~ in her eyes!

