CAMPASTIME.s

4

JESUSPEND YOUR BLABOMINABLE
TWINTERLOCUTIONS AND
EXPEDITE YOUR TWIXIT, OR
STOP YELLING AND SCRAM
SOMETHING must be done about the English language. And fast.
Every year, tens of ,millions of words are written. Conceding that
,most of them can be consigned to the trash-bin still thousands of
useful new books in English are published annually. Librarians all
over the world are biting their nails and tearing th.eir hair, trying to
cope with this exploding influx. Meanwhile libraries and trash-bins
alike bulge and groan. It is as bad as the population problem. Books
, iterally seem to be breeding books. Take Shakespeare. He was th.e
worst sinner. He produced piles! And they in turn bred piles of
criticisms, commentaries, notes and adaptations. Stratford-upon-Avon
has a library entirely devoted to Shakespeare. Now come to Samuel
Johnson. As we all know, he wrote. And Boswell and others wrote
biographies of Johnson. Many authoritative criticisms of Boswell's
biography of Johnson were published, and Boswell came to be as much
discussed as Johnson. So Hesketh Pearson, clever chap, wrote a
biography of Boswell. If anyone writes a biography of Hesketh
Pearson, I think I will strangle him. Thank God, Pearson is dead and
can't write his autobiography.
Book breeding apart, what about the literature which is being
produced. at a staggering rate, as words try to keep pace with scientific
and techni~l thought and development? It all adds up to one hell of
a situation.
In the future storing knowledge is going to become more and more
difficult. Microfilming is going to help. surely j but the real, practical
change must come about in the language itself. It has got to be compressed and made precise so that more can be expressed in lesser
space and shorter time. This revolution is inevitable. otherwise the
language will stifle itself, Just as compulsory measures are bound to
come when the population explosion rouses everybody, English will
shed its adipose when people realise that it is too obese for convenience in a shrinking world.

P. SUDARSAN
Already imperceptible changes have taken place and the language
is rid of the frills and floridities of Shakespeare. But the solution to
the problem 0 f unwieldy and uncertain storage of knowledge requires
a major revolution. What is the solution? Perhaps acronyms offer
the clue.
'
'.
Suppose you can juxtapose a set of two or more words and get a
single word denoting the same idea ; then you are already one up in the
game. Now it remains to prune unnecessary letters and perhaps make
minor realignments of syllables for .the s~ke o~ coherence and. ~~y
pronunciation. For example, the Idea to mduce one to SIn 1S
readily conveyed by the single ,vord 'sinduce '. Again, jf you always
., sinterpret' you must be narrow-minded. Remember, it is more cheerful to grinfer rather than sinfer. If anyone grinforms you that you are
sinfused and why, don't believe him : tell him that his bawdeductions
'are sillogical, primmaterial, ,dimcompetent and ditherelevant.
Campastimes itself is a most ingenious example of these, shall we
say, ' .syncronyms '.
And then, recall the time when the • By Night' series of films was
in vogue? The word' sex' was used to coin many a syncronym in
the ads. Here are some of the ecstatic (or rather, sextatic) epithets
used to describe • Universe by Night' • America by Night', sexetera ...
, sexiting " • sexational :' • sexplosive " • sextraordinary', «sextremel.y
sexy t. Well, if you Wish to use «sex' to f~rm syncronyms the poss~­
biIities are sinfinite. But, no doubt, you V1ew such tasteless sexplol~
tation with prim disapproval.
Syncronyms can put across ideas which can otherwise be expres~
sed only with difficulty. In Connoiseur's S. F., edited by Tom

See this nice guy.
See the guy think.
Think" man, think.
Why is he thinking?
He is writing a
periodical.
And':'how is he doing.
Just see him think.

Now see this guy.
See the guy peep.
Peep, Tom, peep.
Why is he peeping?
He too is writing a
periodical.
And how is he dOing?
Just see him peep.

Boardman, the word «guesstimate' has been coined. Popular science
fiction writer E.F. Russel has chosen the title 'Diabologic' for one of
his stories.
One day such words will become ;common parlance. However.
pioneers please watch your step. Syncronyms can trip you. A fellow
enthusiast once told me eagerly that • equine t pertained to horses and
, ox ' is, well, just an ox. So an equinox is a cross between a mare
and an ox I
Another friend of mine came up with the attractive syncronym .
, misstake'. It sounded very much like an invitation to body lifting.
Young ladies, don't be alarmed. We have no such sintentions! But we
deem it necessary to warn you that it has to be committed sometime or
the other, unless you wish to become old maids. Howe\'er, once you are
wed, better keep a lookout on Hubby and see that he does not commit
more • misstakes '. Misstakes, we notice, are mostly a result of • mandates' . So if demure damsels don't wish to be harassed, they must
abolish all laws I Diabologic, eh ?
A synclonym-minded distant uncle of mine on the maternal side
has twins. They are the peskiest, noisiest, most irritating ulcers I
know. But my uncle takes great pride in their spirits and mollycoddles them. Reminds me of the way some people treat their pet
corns. If the two barged into the conversation, which they did simultaneously, my uncle would say, ' don't twinterrupt ! ' and let out a loud
guffaw. If they said anything that wasn't idiotic, he would turn
around to me and say, 'Isn't that twinteresting,' and let out another l~ud
guffaw. My uncle is famous nQt only for his car splitting guffaws,
but also for his blasphemous hapit of prefixing every exclamation
with 'Jesus I '. One day the twins were in high jinks. They burst
paper bags when their father opened his mouth to say something, tickled
his nose with a feather to make him sneeze, and pressed ice-cubes on
his beUy, counting the number of seconds it took for him to scream.
Finally, they started an argument as to who should pull his left ear.
They fought furiously f~r its possession, hurli~g imprecations at each
other. Even my good-natured uncle was turmng red under the gills.
I quickly sensed that matters had come to a head. I employed my
sharp telepathic and intuitive powers and predicted to myself that anymoment now my uncle would howl, • Jesuspend your blabominable
twinterlocutions and expedite your twixit '. My uncle disappointed
me sorely. He merely shouted, " Stop yelling and scram! '.
Syncronyms can come to your rescue in situations where you must
be evasively truthful. A poor cousin of mint', who caught the
syncronym bug from me, works as a glorified flunkey for a re.tircd
colonel. This fastidious gentleman has a pet tabby. One day, puss
passed water on his (the colonel'S) bed. Feeling personally responsible
for the mess, my harried cousin 'Y8s wondering how to conceal it. Just
then, the colonel trooped in, sur~eyed the beautiful scene, and yelled
in the best army manner,' What the bloomin' hell is this?' 'S-ss-sir,'
my cousin blurted out, «the situation is er . . . piscatorial! '.
I know of at least one instance of a distressed mind calmed by the
therapeutic values of a syncronym. A bachelor friend of mine learnt
that his girl friend was in the family way. He was worried. Soon he
became the father of a bonny bab¥. The poor fellow was distraught.
The legal position bothered him.' He didn't know whether he was an
illegitimate father or the baby was an illegitimate child. A friend,
however, consoled him: ' Chin up, old chap. Whether you are illegitimate or the baby is, it's mere syntax I'
If you invent a syncronym, it's better to check up from the dictionary whether you have another • equinox' on your hands. There
is a story of an English enthusiast with a negligible knowledge of
mathematics, landing in India with his wife. He had never met a
coloured person before, and didn't kno,v that we Indians are all
brown, more or less. Spotting his first Indian, he jumped up and
down with excitement and pointed out, 'I,ook Emily, there goes a
tangent! '.

Here is a lecturer.
See lecturer "galle
Gape, man, gape.
Why is he gaping,
\'lith that S iolt

See one more lecturer.
~his one is happy.
WhY,is he happy?
Because there are no
doubts.

~mil

a-dripping''?
Someone "has asked
him a. doubt.

Why are there no

" doubts?

He

has let them off.

