CAM)£> ASTIMES

5'

Impure Mathematics
Once upon a time (lIt), pretty little Polly Nomial was strolling
across a field of vectors when she came acl'Oss the edge of a singularly
large matrix.
Now 'Polly was convergent and her mother had made it an absolute
condition that she must never enter such an array without her brackets
on. Polly. however, who had changed her variables that morning
and was feeling particularly bad behaved, ignored this condition on
the grounds that it was insufficient and made her way in amongst the
·complex elements.
Rows and columns en.veloped her on all sides. Tangents approached
her surface. She became tensor and tensor. Quite suddenly, three
branches <?f a hyperbola touched hel' at a single point. She oscillated
violently, lost all sense of directrix, and went completely divergent.
& she reached a turning point, she tripped over a square root protruding from an ed (error function) and plunged headlong down a steep
·gradient. \~Then she was differentiated once morc she found herself,
apparently alone, in a non-Euclidean space.
She was being watched, however, by that smooth operator, Curly
Pi ('11). As his eyes devoured her curvilinear coordinates, a singular
expression crossed his face. 'Vas she still convergent, he wondered.
He decided to integrate improperly at once.
Hearing a vulgar fraction behind her, Polly tlll'ned round and saw
Curly Pi approaching her with his pow~r series extrapolated. She
could see' at once by his degenerate conic and his dissipative terms,
that he was bent on no good.
e Eureka l' she gasped.
, Ho, ho ! • he 'said, 'whitt a symmetrical little Polly Nomial you
·are. I can see you are absolutely bubbling over with sees.'
, Oh Sir,' she protested, ' keep away from me. I haven't got my
brackets on.'
• Calm yourself, my dear,' said our suave operator, 'your fears are
'purely imaginary.'

'i, i,' she thought.

' Perhaps he's homogeneous then?' .
order are you? ' the brute demanded.
.
'
, Seventeen,' replied Polly.
Curly leered. 'I suppose you've nevel' been operated on yet?' he
said.
, Of course not,' Polly cried indignantly. 'I'm absolutely convergent.'
• Come, come,' said Curly, 'let's go 'off to a decimal place I know
and I'll take you to the limit.'
, Never!' gasped Polly.
, EXCHLF !' he swore, using the vilest oath he knew. His
patience was gone. Cusing her over the coefficient with a log until
she was powerless, Curly removed her discontinuities. He stared at
her significant places and bcgarl smoothing her points of inflexion.
Poor Polly. . All was up. She felt his hand lending to her asymptotic
limit. Her convergence would soon be gone forevel'.
There was no mercy, for Curly was . a Heavy side operator. He
integrated by parts. He integrated by partial fractions. The complex
beast even vient all the way and did a contour integration. What an
indignity to be multiple connected on her first integration. Curly went
on operating till he was completely and absolutely orthogonal.
'When Polly got home that evening, her mother noticed that she
held been. truncated in several places. But it was too late to diffel'entiate now. As the months went by Polly increased monotonically.
FimlUy s.he generatecl a small but ijllthological function which left
surds all oyer the place until she was. ariven to distraction.
The moral of our sad story is: If you want to keep your expressions
convergent, never allow them more than a single degree of freedom.
< What

(Reprint from Scope, Journal of the Federation of University
Astronomical Societies)

.An Eye For a Boot-(CollliuUlld from page 23)

was, wrenched open with a horrendous crash.
It was then that I witnessed an incredible,
stupefY.ing spectacle. A geoidal mass of
human material litcrally shot out of the
room. It quivered for a moment like a globule
of quicksilver on a red-hot steel plate; then it
seemingly evaporated out of the sccnery. So
quickly did it vanish that the translational
velocity would surely have transgressed all
rules of relativistic mechanics. I stood there
·gaping.
«0

:(Overheard in class):
• I say, Moos, what was all that ballyhoo
about in your hostel this morning?'
, Botti was gettin' a lil' bit 0' excel'cise.

See man pull.
Pull, man, pull.
Why is he pulling?
He is trying to ea~
And what is he
trying to eat?
Well ••••.•
Just see him pull.

2

See

That blighter Pootsimboos slIrejazzed him up
in real style,' there was an admiring glint
in the protuberant eyes. 'He shoved a large live
snake in the fat blimp's room. And lots of bees
and things. The snake didn't have any fangs,
so Poots tells me, but the bees sure had stings.
Botti's jelly now. Hc's gota phobia for such
things,' The Spellker h~'ppenO;!d to catch
sight of me.' Speak of the Devil I Puots,
come 'erc, tell us all about it.'
'There is nothing much to tel!, ac~ually.
1'd much I'ather be nOll-committal and let
YOlt guys surmise what you may.'
Silence.
' All that is okay. Bltt how'cc you
goin' to escape Botti whcn he dons war paint
and tendedy stretches out his lovin' hands
to wring your beeyootiful neck? '

this nice warde

GRRE. ••• Grrr.! Grr.!
Oh, ohl The warden

is angry.
Why is he angry?
It is Hostel Day,
All fun and gay,

And he has not been
invited.

, There is

som~thing

in what you say. .But

I'll crOSS my bndges when I come to them.
Right now Botti is likely to remain out of
commission for at least twenty-four hours, and
I'll make my preparations by that time.'
• How come, twenty-four hours? '
I treated them to Olle of my knowing winks.
'He keeps cookl'-watcr for drinking in his
flask.'
They looked puzzled. Gradually, a look
.dawning comprehension transformed Moos'
unmentionable face. 'You doctored it? '
, Yup. Purgative.'
, The poor, poor fish.'
• Yes, the poor, poor fish.'

of'

....., POOTSIMBOOS UNOHOO.

