6,

CAMPASTIMES
impression that Nature must have started with
enough material for two Roys, but decided to
put everything into one and be done with it.
In other words he resembles, rather closely,
a Roman Emperor who is exceptionally fond
of starchy foods.
Roy started his rise to fame with an incident
in the third year. He walked into the first
year class and looked not left nor right till
, he was standing in front of the two girls who
lend colour to the class. Then pulling out
with a flourish a visiting card bearing the
legend R. N. Roy, Faculty of Electrical
Etlgilleering, The b,dia" Institute of Technology,
Madras, and trying to look as much like Sean
Connery as he possibly could, he presented it
to them and solicited an article for Campas~
times. Legends say that an article was
handed over, but in what finally appeared in
print Roy used only the title at the top and
the authors' names at the bottom, and let his
imagination flm wild in between.

art and fashions, and gives uninvited lectures.
on them. Not very authentic, but very entertammg. I mean, you can't have everything,
you know. Not everyone can pack so· many
laughs in a g~s session on bionics, okay?
When you . drop lin, be prepared. He be~
lieves in the ultimate in informality. To
your knock will come sounds from within
I.ike a couple of bulldozers being started, a
few 'words of endearing invitations to come
in, which we dare not print, and finally the
door is thrown open and Roy stands there
in all his majestic splendour, not hampered.
by clothes and things. I don't mean that he
is entirely in the altogether, but, well,almost.
It~appened at a girls' College not too far
from here, and probably the whole incident is"
still listed in Roy's memory under the heading
'Incident, extraordinary, one of.' A certain
girl, I believe, contacted Roy on the talking
machine one day and, after the usual chit
chat, asked him over to their college for tea
the next evening. It was in honour of the
elite of the town, Roy was given to under-"
stand. The next day, Roy turned up there
with a few friends (let'S not drag in their
names too) all shaved, spruced and boy-Ohboy, dressed to deal out instant death. Surprise, surprise, there was no reception committee at the portals of the college. Our
heroes are made of sterner stuff and do not
give in easily. So they strolled in. They
walked and walked, stories go, and it was only
whenlthey were in the middle of some sort of
a qU3,drangle that it started. It was a shrill
whistle. Soon there were many whistles.
Soon yelts were heard and later even jeers.
You know what I meanwhistles to the left of them
yelling to the right of them
jem's behind tltem-

~1i\ liIHlllW1D ~~

°W 9

IR:®V
Both Bill Shakespeare and Alex Pope have
stressed the tediousness of a twice told tale.
You will agree that what is good enough for
Bill and Alex is good enough for us. Not this
Roy. Tell him anything, and three days
later he drops in on you and says, 'You
won't believe me, but there was this .•...
and you hear your masterpiece, slightly
spiced, and expanded as only Roy knows how
to. The next day he comes up again with,
'This is absolutely first hand ..... ' and
you hear it all over again. I am at a loss,
for both Bill and Alex are silent about the
nature of a thrice told tale. (It is the same
thing recommending a movie to him. He
comes back and tells you the story· and his
wisecracks about it, the whole of which lasts
slightly longer than the movie itself.) If the
story is not one that you started, and you
are hearing it for the first time from Roy, it
is advised that you know the value of the
Roy Factor. Under normal. conditions one
takes the cube root.
Watching Roy walk towards you, you know
what Muhammed will have to put up with if he
refuses to go to the mountain.
Roy knows the latest developments in
science" and technology and medicine and

ABOUT two hours after yonder' sun
has risen . over the Bay of Bengal, Roy
walks"into the 'Ganga mess for breakfast and the
waiter asks him what he would have. C Ten
oothappams from the veg. side and four eggs
and the usual from the non~veg. side,' he
says, and gets ready to tuck into his rations.
'tapeworms raise their hats, watching Roy
eat, knowing that they are in the presence of
a master.
Watching him class-wards bound, dressed
in terycotton trousers and a T ~shirt made to
order by Omar the tent-maker, one get,s the

It was the saddest retreat since" Napoleon
returned from Moscow , I am told. But then
there is infinite wisdom in w.hat they say about
it: 'It is better to have gone for tea and not
have got it, than never to have gone ata11.'
Roy's sense of humour is absolutely topping. He starts where Bob Hope left off.
Re can turn a dead serious vernacular movie
into a super colossal comedy with his running
commentary.
When Roy passes out, he just wants to do
farming, join the Theosophical SOCiety, . take
a few loans from the leading banks of the US,
get a job in Latin America, study management in India, and bionics either in Israel or
Netherlands, and start an Industry by himself.
That's whatl like about him-no crazyambitions.
-GOPE.

.~
CRICKffiT
AUTOMATICTI C TIC T I (TIC ....

S P /ti!fA R E PA ~TS

I~
BY

ABSENT -t-L'NDED

BBV

BB

CLASS - ROOM

(le~)

BY

OR. J./ANS

WAGNER·
iHE
Ij

BY

ROONESPISM

CNANCHANDRA·

T'l.

8Y

:DIET

PRADUP

P'R.JZES

To be

01"

GO

not

to

-1,)

MINI

3-)

AutDrn ... Rd1dic _. - -

TO
b¢

