CAMPASTIMES
-----_._--.__._ -_..._.._--_._ .__. ... __.. _

----_._--

:PERSONALITmS

Dr
K

L
E

I
N
The Germans say • Klein' is small. But
-there is nothing small about Dr Klein, who
with indefatigable energy runs a one-man
-department. He is the Head, Lecturer, Tutor
:and Typist of the Department of German.
He takes, on an average, eight hours a week.
For the past year Dr Klein has been the man
behind the 'times'. He has nurtured and
led this journal through its initial teething
troubles, until now it is able to hold its own
.anywhere.
Dr Klein's lectures are in a class by themselves. He is lenient to the ~oint of in·dulgence, and there is a general aura of free.dom pervading the class. The more volatile
constituents of the class get an opportunity to
voice their opinion; only to get tnem really
·demolished by Dr Klein in his inimitable
manner. He often intersperses. his lectures
with ' anecdotes, and more often than not in .
'such cases, gets carried away; and when jolted
back to reality by a chance remark, says
:rather guiltily, 'Where was I . . . . • ' He

speaks in rather a low tone and so one has
to be all ears, else it could mean • another
year' I He has certain mannerisms such as
grimacing in mock pain when confronted by
a wrong answer from a student. Then, of
course, there is the incident, when a certain
student repeatedly pronounced • dam it ' as
• dammit' and Dr Klein puUed out a tOY
pis~ol ~nd said • Say it ~orrectly, or I shoot j'
So It IS not hard to beheve that it is no unusual phenomenon to see his class dissolved
in mirth.
Dr Klein had his university education in
Frankfurt, Munich . and Tuebingen. He
came on a sCholarshIp to Shantiniketan to
study In?ian Phil~sop~y, and later taught
German 111 the Umversny of Calcutta. His
knowledge of Sanskrit enables him to draw
analogies between German and Sanskrit
grammar during the Course of his lectures
(leaving most of us as much at sea as before;
or even more so.)
Dr Klein has a passion for collecting works

of ancient Indian art such a~ scrolls, sculptures
and any other articles of antique value that come
his way. His house is positively littered with
massive sculptures, brass bowls and the like.
One has but to question him a bit, and he
will describe all of them, with a wealth of
detail, which would probably fascinate more
aesthetic minds. He is a voracious reader and
his miniature library would satiate any lover of
contemporary fiction.
.
Until recently Dr Klein used to drive a
blue Opel station wagon which, not content
with a spar or two with a tree, decided to
try conclusions with a buffalo which Challenged
its right of way. It came out of it very much
the worse for wear and Dr Klein now drives
a museum piece, which again is remarkably
consistent with his hobby. Consequently, he
is temporarily in a rather • cowed' state
though it shouldn't be long before his car
returns to rip up the lIT roads once more.

-M. V. R.

~~;~~~;~;~~~~~~~~;~~~~v~~~~~~~~~

.RIVER§IDE
FROL][C§
DEEDS of derring-do have recently been wrought on the banks of the
Jamuna, whose placid limpidity has been muddied by the advent of
'large herds of that transient species - - ' fresher' - - genus student,
·to whom are strange indeed the ways of IIT and alien every tradi1:ional delight.
A noble effort 011 the part of the hoary seniors to initiate these
'strangers in our ways and customs was branded criminal. Stern laws
were passed by our di'Reqtuour of fame, and an executive body headed
by a redoubtable Waughden was entrusted with the enforcement
-thereof.
Meanwhile it came to pass that Alakananda, a lesser stream.
-abounded with the same game (of the same name). Another and
stricter Waughden was to ensure the safety of the denizens.
And thus it was that the clarion caU proclaiming the beginning of
the hunting season - - 'Hey Fresher II ' was sounded not quite so
loudly as usual, perhaps. but every jot as firmly. And activities com~
menced of which the Waughdens wot not, not heeded if they wot.
The opening gambits having been got over, and a few conventional
.questions (Wise guy, eh? Witty guy, eh? Tough guy, eh? Smart guy,
e.h ? •.• ad infinitum with varying inflexions) are asked and the subject
of .the experiment can be classi6ed as 'fresh' or • non-fresh'.
Generally, the guys who say, 'Sir, no Sir' to the above questions are
'placed in the second category, though the coots who placed high in the
-entrance exam or who had four ' ones' in the School Cert. are regarded with the Eye of Suspicion.
Freshness in a fresher, unlike in a fish, is not considered a desirable

[The know-all and Blld-all of Campus literary activities, S. Paramcshwara71,
a/$o known in certain circles by more slallderous flames, took to dabbli71g
Campastimes like a duck takes to water. Campastimes' :tock
rose at times, a1ld fell at times, but Parameslzwara11 never sold out. ;His
Q,·Ucles, always eminently readable and ba1lg 011 time, have selJlt Campastimes th"Ollgh times of famine and times of plenty.]

i1l

quality - - the gentleman in question is persuaded to eschew this
fault and be a good little boy . . .... The degrees and the methods of
persuasion are numerous, and those desirous of refreshing their mefnories or learning fresh approaches are reminded of the imminent
publication, 'Freshness in Fteshers: Its Causes and Cures Ii, a
comprehensive treatise by some 'of our leading researchers. Some of
the methods are calculated, but nowhere is the notion of C limit ': introduced. Demonstrations and experimental studies are still in
progress at the time of writing.
•
These activities have given rise to a spate of controversial problems.
Severe measures have been demanded against those who attempt to
question other seniors. The suggestion has been made that it will be
more amusing to 'interrogate' second year guys than freshers.
Resolutions have been passed that any fresher who sneaks or ~acts
unduly tough shall forfeit certain privileges in future years. Gentlemanly folk hold the amusements above described beneath contempt.
Hardened souls consider the entire process .extremely mild and yearn
to give it a shot in the ear with a few zippy ones they heard or did in
the NDA or St. Stephens. It is hereby proposed that these several
problems be solved, and certain definite tenets universally adopted, by
Campastimes conducting one of their famous reader-:reaction questionnaires with analog computers clicking busily (or mayhap computing
noiselessly) in the background. Possible there may be a special issue
on Student-Student Relationships - - a breakthrough in can.ipus
journalism.

-

S.

PARAMESWARAN.

