CAMPAS;TIMES
(Campastimes had its sapients and wits and altogether briHillnt
suggestions, like the one below.) ,

Sugg,ested A,ccelerated Course for the
Production of 10,000,000 Bachelors of
Technology by 1970
By

TEE AAR

IN vi~w of the great ne.ed ,for an in~l'eased Ollt~ut of 'qualified
engllle~r~ and technologIsts, the followmg scheme for the production
of 10 mlillon B. Tech. graduates is suggested for consideration
and approval by the appropriate bodies., The scheme is based on the
well~known fact that a school year normally consists of only about 120
wor~ng days. If all holidays and vacations are abolished, a ch.ild
entenng school at the age of five can finish the normal eleven-vear
course in about three years and eight months. This leaves ari'inco~yenient period of four. months to be filled in, hut this may be
utIlized for worltshop practice before the B. Tech. Course. The fiveyear course can again be finished in less than two years, the leftover of
four months being again employed usefully, say for General Machines
Labor~tory Practice. At eleven years of age, then, you'll have a B. Tech.,
who, m. contrast to the existing, ones, has the additional advantaO'c
of eight months' practical experience' ! If further acceleration is
req~ired, we can reduce the age of school entry to three years, thereby
sa.v'!<6. two )'ears and ~urning ou~ 'another three million or so graduates.
All thIS Wlthout makmg the shghtest llse of Huxley's methods of
embryonic suggestion I

•
(This provoked a further analysis of the subject, as other IITians
became intrigued by the possibilities opened up.)

Speed-A-Tech.
While commending Tee Aar on his brilliant solution for acceleratin~ the produc~ion of Bachel.ors of Technology, I wish. however, to
pOlllt out a senous shortcommg of the plan before the Mi.nistry for the
B. Tech. industry, dazzled by the impressive figures quoted b'y Tce
Aar, accepts the plan unanimously.
,,
A short analysis of the first ten years of the career of an engineer
is . necessary to understand the difficulties. . There is sufficient proof
that the B. Tech. of the present generation poses a problem to the
s?ciety, to ,his employer and to himself . in the early stages of his professlonal career. At an average age of. 21 years, roughly 97.7% of the freshly
stamped B. Techs. are still unmarried and it has been noted that young ,
l~married engineers are a menace to respectable society. The l'eaSon

for this .phenomenon is that a young B. Tech., who has spent ~bqut
5 years 111 a predominantly male world loses his balance when let loose
in (after graduation) mixed society. On the professional side too the
~ngi~eer is a literal problem-child .to his employer. Imagin~tion' and
ldeahsm, not yet cooled down 10 contact with this hard world of
industrialists and Government red tape, often get him hito tight and
uncomfortable corners. This causes disfavour with the bosses and lack
of peac: of mind ~o himself. ~astly, the susl?icious attitude taken by
the soclety and hiS employer llnposes a ternfic mental strain on the
YOU!lg f~l1ow and h:e slowly loses h~s grip on everything, especially
engmeenng. The plcture, however, IS not as black as depicted above;
for our young B. .Tech., now 9bout 24 or 25, marries and there is
usm\~ly a m~rked unpr?vement 111 the situation. The society 110 longer
con~lders 111m a potc!ltml menace to respectable living and 82.8%, of the
en&meers after ffi:arn~e ha~'e been found to submit willingly to the
wlums and fancies . ot their bosses, thus compensating amply for any
unpleasantness caused in their bachelor days. There is a marked shift
in their mental attitude towards the causes of dissatisfaction in the office
- .- th.ey no longer have .e)lOug!l tim~ to. worry about this in. their
leisure hours or they take it outltm theIr Wives and children rather than
on their bread givers. To Slilll lip, the present B. Tech. is reactionary
from his 21st to h:is 2~th year (average figures), i.e., for a period O'r
four years, becomIng, .111 general, however, a tam? and good citizen
afterwards .. Now tuklllg up Tee Aar's first plan of B. Techs. at eleven
yea~'s of. age, a precocious engineer may also be expected to be preCOCIOUS 111 othel' matters.
\Ve may expect that he marries earlier than
his 1?resent da>, c.ounterpart, say at eighteen years. EYen then, the
reactIOnary perIod lS extended to 7 years. which will be vel'y troubleso~e indeed fr.om the point of view of the society and the employers.
It 1S even posslble that due to such a long period of free living and free
thinking, the percentage of engineers which remains untamed after
marriage will increase alarmingly. As to Tee Aar's second plan, suffice
it to say that the pl'Oblem is unimaginable.
If the authorities are still of the opinion that the proposed plan can
be carried through in spite of the increased reactionism, they would do
well to take the following precautionary measures to reduce that
possibility:
. 1.. Compel the engineer to marry after 3 years of the degree
exammatlOll.
z. Compel him (the engineer) to maintain himself and his wife
011 his salary only. (No money orders or cheques from home.)
•
. 3. Make him sign a bOI~d of service with his first employer for
a penod of at least ten years. (The penalty for default of bond should
be quite high.)
.
·4. Increase unimportant paper work to make the young engineer
feel quite important. He being still a child, it will be 'easy to inculcate
in him an impression that engineering practice is nothing hut signing
papers and sending them through the propel' channels. .
,. -PARAMESW I\RAN.

LETTRlelfS

ANTICLIMAX i,

BltD

./"T

E,

~DER-CJEAR
c;ouM

L

ST? M'PSLA£'ED?

No?

TUST I-II@EN

DEA~

thats , the thlrcl f('m'e

missed'
:
o
,

