CAM-PASTIMES

----------------------------------------~

of ~ye-Aye

7iq

The ostrich is a fascinating bird. It has
been known to run at speeds exceeding
+5 m.p.h. It is claimed to have eaten burning
q,al. Its supple legs have enough strength
to carry a massive human at considerable
. speed. However, it suffers from a touchingly
human weakness. When it is being chased by
a hunter and is losing the race, it stops sud<lenly at a sand bank and buries its head in the
sand. There, in the se~urity of darkness, its
pea~sized brain churns out an almost human
philosophy:
C What I cannot see,
Cannot be.'
That the students of a certain hostel should
want to stop subscribing to Campastimes
because it did not pour praise and shower
appt:eciation on their prize-winning performance in the inter-hostel entertainment competition is quite ostrich-like, besides being
<;hildish. Whether they subscribe or not, what
has been written has been written, published
and read and what will be written will be
written, published and read. H they wish
to close their eyes and convince them.selves that nothing has been written about
them, they can go right ahead and play the
.astrich. We have the spotted deer, the katans
and now these. Campastimes is their affair as
much as it is of the colwnnist, who they claim
has libelled them. If they do not agree with
what has been written they are free to sing
what they think is the truth and I am sure
Campastitn6S will find space for their song
of truth and any other numbers.
Whether they are going to subscribe for their
·copies of Campa$tim~f or not, it is a bet that
they are going to read the paper somewhere or
the other, and tha~ is not being ostrich-like
but being very smart:
-V. R.

.

.

.

A prominent secretary swore later that he
was the third person in the open air theatre ;
the first two were the patron and the chief
:guest. The few who were dragged in subsequently must have guessed by now-I am
referring to the 1967-68 inauguation of the
Gymkhana of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras-36, the only one of its kind
'in Madras etc., etc. Frantic, the embarrassed
secretaries fanned out on foot and wheel in
search of flesh to fill the chairs. I am sure
they assured everyone that if the bowl wasn't
bursting at its seams, it was because of the
basketball match. The truth is, that, but for
the small and understanding crowd that had
turned up to watch the game of basketball,
the inauguration would have been what the
new president in his address labelled the
Gymkhana-unique. If you had passed
within a mile of OAT that evening, you
would have been intercepted by a sick looking
gym member, told what a gem you were and
.gently but firmly escorted to a chair. Having
-rounded up a quonun, the sprightly General
Secretary went about introducing his Cabinet
with brief life-sketches. He made no new
friends among the people whose lives he
~ketched that evening.
The bowl, deserted at six p.m., was, two
hours later, throbbing with the piquant vitality of two thousand neurotic. souls waiting
impatiently for their new 3S mm. wonder to
start entertaining them. That our 16 mm.
moV'ies have taken something like three years
to grow to the present dimensions is clearly
not in keeping with our motto-' What can't
rise overnight, doesn't rise in lIT.' At the
rate at which our neighbours from Velacheri
~nd other settlements are choosing to visit US
Qn Saturday evenings, we will soon need a
Circarama to accommodate them. Now that
the screen has doubled itself, the film club
blokes seem to think it logical to show
movies that are only half as long. I did
not see the. film but I heard a chap complaining that the movie on the 23rd
September, C Lovers must Learn,' started
with a song he had heard after the interval,
3

the summer before last. Our several gene~
rations of projection room operators have
never taken pains to show the reels in the
order the director intended them to be, nor
have our audiences really cared; but at
this rate the new multimillion dollar film
about Columbus, when shown in IIT, will
begin in Manhattan and end up in the middle
of Atlantic via Madrid, with Rome and
Istanbul thrown in for kicks.
The film club chaps must be finding it
impossible to show films that are approved by
all. Our audiences contain from the most
fastidious highbrows to the most aesthetically
underdeveloped. Some are so widely read in
anglican literrture that they are capable of
discovering in each word, a second meaning,
an inner meaning and meanings that are unmeant and there are those who find the AngloSaxon tongue utterly incomprehensible, especitrlly in the form of jokes .
The central feature of our Saturday evening
entertainment is the mass participation. It is
as if the actors step out of the Silver Screen,
mingle with the audience and together create
a new version of the film. Indigllant public
opinion and the arrival of the 35 mm. have
reduced the extent of participation in recent
times, but it will always be there. Mystery,
drama, romance and wit have never had a
chance-diluted unrecognizably by an in~
cessant flux of wise cracks-some undeniably
funny; most, sickeningly sick; some to set a
chap here fuming, a chap there blushing;
others likes • Murderer Ja Raha Ha~ , inspired
spontaneously by the spirit of the occasion;
but all motivated by a sincere desire to irritate
others. Then, there are those who have got
round the irrationalities of the language and
must think aloud in their native tongues if
they are to follow the intricate plots •
If by some superb synthesis, the sophisticated and . not so sophisticated are pleased,
there are the sensibilities of the newly joined
youngsters from schools who are still in their
cocoons. Many parents have, I believe,
objected to their inna<:ent kids being exposed
to unchaste adult movies. Parents have their
duties but even some students have complained of eroticism on the screen.
Perhaps there is truth in what a ragging
loyalist said the other day in the Jamuna
Hostel debate: C The trouble with you
freshers is that you have not been introduced
to the facts of the world by your experienced
seniors ... .' Of course, how and to what
they are to be introduced is a debatable
matter.

..

.

.

If one morning you step out of your house
and find the blazing sun not to your liking.
you can do two things. You can go in and get
yourself a hat and a pair of sunglasses or
if you are a man of grander vision, you can
order a shipload of Zebra umbrellas from
Mansukhani & Co., Bombay, and have
them sent up from Thumba to cover up
the source of heat.
Asking all the people
in the campus to wear dog tags to prevent
thefts in hostels belongs to the second
ideology. It is not such a grandiose idea,
but I have a sinking feeling that an extra
pair of sharp eyes in each hostel is more
likely to solve the problem.
Happily, our hostels have very few regulations and fewer still that are obeyed. Yet,
no one can complain that we have been
painting the place red. If anything, the
leniency has been under-utilized. But for
a few stray blots here and there, it has
been a case of you-Iook-after-your-nose-and
-l'll-look-after-mine. Why new constraints
now? Why suffocate the freedom of the
forests with man-made taboos ?
It is only a rumour but someone believes
that an outside hospital has Jodged a complaint with the institute authorities about the
increasing number of lIT students with
a certain type of ailment. Since when haVe
the medical colleges started turning out
doctors with white collars to go with their
white coa~s and bottomless pockets? What
does it matter what time of the night we
return or whether we return at all? Most
of us are adults.
Are not our hours, coins
and morals ours to keep and ours to expend?
Men overrate their power to influence other
men. Of all their means, rules and regulations
are the most primitive and the least likely to
yield lasting results. If we shall be saints,
successes, and gems, let us be; If we shall
be failures, wasters and scum, let us be, for,
one thing is sure-no rules or regulations
nOr their absence can change one to the
other.
-VIJAY Rm>DY.

CARICATURE

Minu Kalappa

Minu possesses a tall frame, and a jawbreaking name: Mandepanda Kalappa Kuttappa.
He has one thing in common with Jack-the
many delightful variations his name has
un~~rgone. He is KeJappa to some; the way
Baja] pronounces it cannot be described in
words. By far the best variation occurred at
a recent athletics meet at Rajaratnam
Btad.ium. A lady judge came up to our
contmgent and wanted to compliment the high
jumper Kalpana on his performance.
Minu's aU-consuming passion is films. His
knowledge of English movies is simply
If all the films he has seen were
fantastic.
placed end to end, the Great Wall of China
would have to move over.
Next in his interests comes bridge. He is
a very ,l ine player. (Being his partner, I can
hardly;say otherwise.) He led his team to a
convincing victory in last year's tournament
in the Institute, and to an equally convincing
drubbing in an outside tournament. R~ason
for the latter: lack of sleep.
It is said that his six-foot-odd height
and handsome ( ? ) face have set many a heart
aflame. Unfortunately, our hero is very shy
and does not utilize his advantage. He
becomes extremely self-conscious when the
opposite sex expresses its admiration for hims
Even no,!, Balram ~ays, the, wor~ 'Ginger'
makes him turn pInk. HIS height carries
some disadvantages. too. It is a torture for
him: to stand in buses. He wants the trans~
port rules amended so that some seats are
reserved for six-footers only.
Thad has vowed never to remain in the
samet room with Minu when the latter is
absorbing potent beverages. It is not that
Thad . has joined the Temperance League.
Thad Just does not want a repeat performance
of a scene of revelry enat'ted a few years ago
when after imbibing some of the best, Minu
gave, hot pursuit to Thad. The latter had
absolutely no doubt of the dishonourableness
of the latter's intentions and had great
difficulty in escaping his clutches. Minu says
he waS just fooling, but Thad is not so sure.
On the athletics field, Minu is truly a
phenomenon. Unlike other successful athletes, Minu does not believe in regular
practice and smokes more than a chimney
does. Yet if our Institute has ever been Sure
of one thing in athletics, it is Minu's performance in the jumps. A very unorthodox
jumper (there IS really no word to describe
his action in the high jump), he uses his
height to full advantage without bothering to
adopt any of the conventional techniques.
Minu is a born sportsman. There is not
a sport he has not tried his hand at, and he
has achieved good profiCiency in every case.
His almost superhuman display of tennis at
the Kharagpur Meet and the record-shattering
hop-step-and-jump at the Madras Meet are
among the best our sportsmen have ever
achieved. With Minu as the captain, our
athletics squad will have someone who can
be a source of inspiration.
-R. RAJASBKHAR.

