12

CAMPASTIME.S

Epitapb
I'm not quite sure how I hit upon the word
• epitaph' as a title but it may turn out to be
appropriate in more ways than one. I can
promise it's going to be as eminently unread"
able as my last two articles since I've been
unofficially established as Campastimes' spacefiller. I hope this can be my parting
shot and that I need not subject anyone to Tee
Square philosophy in future.
So here beginneth an epitaph of youth and
idealism, of dreams and visions and worlds
that might have been and never will be. If
I'm permitted to be more ambitious it is the
epitaph'of a whole phase of our civilization,
and I write with reference to myself not only
for egotistic reasons but for lack of a.ny other
(reference i.e.). I'll be satisfied if I can point
out where my own idealism has failed. But
to be less apologetic and more to the point, I
state categorically that every youngster with
any sense of pride must at least sonie time or '
the other be an idealist. I mean an idealist
in a hybrid sense which implies non-conformism, non-materialism, and a concept that
human dignity however imperfect is more
valuable than the machine perfection to 'which
modern society would have us reduced. I
oppose the good advice to study hard at school
so that one may get good marks in the examination so that one may get into a good
college' so that one may work harder towards
a degree so that one may get a good job So
that one may work still harder for a promotion
so that one may make enough money to start
really living at sixty-four with rheumatism,
false teeth, lung cancer and somebody else's
heart. This is the least-resistance life offered
to the average human today--a life which
keeps dictating • so that' till you're dead or
nearly so. It is the result of much weIlmeant parental care and influence. Why
can't we live for the moment more often and
leave out some of the so thats? Living in the
future always is as good as not living at all.
Great men have advised the equivalent of
'whatever you do, do it with a purpose '. If
that applies universally we'll be robots before
It is often the • purposeless' or
long.
spontaneous things that are most meaningful;
things one does without cold calculated
material reason behind it. If you're human
it's the poetic moments you will remember
and not your visit to a fertiliser factory.
Psychologists equate emotional maturity to
the stifling (roughly) or at least the non-display
of emotions, something which any Egyptian
mummy will pass with flying colours. We are
becoming bound by a dehumanized pattern of
set behaviour, of not committing ourselves, of
saying just those things which C ought' to be
said. As a mild example of such dehumanization, when I say' Good Morning, sir' it could
mean anything from • Hullo, nice to see you '
to • Why did I have to see your rotten mug
today ?' On a more practical level, if I
witnessed a road accident I wonder if I'll be
the first one to help. I may worry about
having to give evidence in court or something
like that. Wouldn't that be shameful? or is
shame already a nineteenth century word?
It's so remarkably easy and safe to feign
blindness and ignorance.
If there's any hope of saving our futUre it
lies with us who will be in it. Paradoxically,
it is based on a purpose, that of fighting the
future with the present. I could almost
proclaim, • Repent, for the end of the world
is at hand and it is of our own choice.'
While I'm still sane (?) I'd choose rather to
die in a nuclear blast than become a zombie.
It is mainly in our school and college days
that we have the best opportunities to build
our Utopias. No matter that it is only a few
who have the guts and grit to live out any of
their noble ideals; it is quite unpardonable
and inhuman for a young chap not to indulge
in any dreams at all. It's like not playing a
game because the other side is stronger. What
the hell, we play anyway for it is better to
have played and lost than never to have played
at all. How much milder is the statement
that it is better to have dreamed and failed
your dream than etc..
Our present existence is pervaded by
machines to an extent which makes us unaware of our automatic actions representing
an extreme state of dependence. The lights

come on not simply because we flick a switch
but because there are power stations
and generators and transmission networks.
The more we . progress the more of a balancing act it becomes. Nyquist might call it
an unstable system. It means that a small
disturbance, wilful or otherwise, is sufficient
to upset it. A bird sucked into a jet engine
for instance. (I believe we blame the bird
'on such an occasion I) The spanner in the
works is but a pin today and will be a puff of
air tomorrow as we blindly swarm up this
. dead-end street caBed progress. In a former
journalistic attempt I think I said that the
power of reason alone distinguishes us from
machines. Since some of the latest computers are reputed to think as well, the only
remaining curtain seems to he irrationality;
and it's a very thin curtain at that. I say it
has come to the last ditch battle for supre"
macy. The material comforts that science
can provide will only be good enough for a
mindless spiritless being. Of course we can
always convert ourselves into robots and
pretend that science was all we ever wanted.
It's the easy way out and the way we're
headed now. But let us hang on to all our
gods and superstitions and art and nature and
philosophy, for the machine-god is both ruthless and efficient and will be unmerciful to
imperfect humans.
Maybe it is unfortunate that it took me an
entire science-based education to discover the
emptiness that science has to offer. More so
that my sole qualification may compel me to
make a living out of accelerating what I
consider my own doom. I suppose that's
where my idealism must stop, if only to
prevent me from harbouring regrets all my
life, since I know damn well that I can't wage
a war on my own. At most I could' wreck a
computer or two and then meditate harmlessly
in a prison cell, with conscience still uneasy.
When I get out of here I guess I'll just fall
into the time-worn groove and become a mere
statistic, a contribution to some Gaussian
distribution curve. What a fall for an in·
dividual with a soul. But no laments. It
has always been a disappointment that most
of my crazy ideas had to be derived from
middle-aged or elderly folk rather than the
likes of me. It forces me to conform all the
sooner and turn my thoughts to matters like
making money.
Those who are concerned with the modern
world of management consider it unfortunate
that a human being is not quite predictable
and cannot yet be governed by any mathematical equation. My limited classroom
contact with the subject has led me to detest
it as a highly immoral profession. Of course
it is the' in' thing today since that's where
all the money is. Get into I.I.M., say, and
life is made, with a thousand for a start. But
what does management science expect of
you-to ferret out all the little inefficiencies
of man and machine and by remedying them
increase productivity and profits so that
you may make still more so that so that so
that •..• The machine, if it could, will surely
cry out. The man by suitable bribes, bonuses
and slick doubletalk is kept blind to the fact
that he is nothing but a worker ant, or worse
still. a Roman galley slave. His every .microaction is sought to be controlled by management. Doesn't anyone feel the outright
indignity of the phrase • man-machine
system '? On equal terms, imagine ! There
are many advanced books on the subject, all
attempting to formulate the human equation so
that it can be reduced to a simple machine
system once more. The modern work study
expert is nothing but an overseer with a whip,
clad in sheep'S clothing. This eternal craving after maximum profits and productive
efficiency which only leads to more of the
same has created a vicious circle forming a
noose around our necks. Unfortunately it is
the big businessman to whom the world pays
homage today and . so he can dictate terms
and issue death warrants at will. The
strength of the hippie phi1o~ophies lies i~ their
rejection of these pointless aims.
There is another topic I touched on in the
beginning to which I would return for another
brief round, namely academic achievement
mania. This can easily become the centre
and sole driving force of a student's life.
All because we thrust so much importance
upon the top guys in a C merit' list. To get
to the top they study harder for their exams

than the other guys; and what virtue is that
since an examination is intrinsically valueles;
~nd merely a yardstick for arbitrary social
Judge~ent? But let me not stray into a discoursq on that, much as I would like to. In.
fact there are ever so many things I'd like to
throw some stones at, some in our Institute.
matters like curricula, staff-student relationship etc., but this isn't exactly a complaint
book, and furthermore the picture would be
sadly distorted if I didn't mention that there
are many matters I appreciate and am grateful for. It is common to take pleasant
circumstances for granted. Indolence and
modesty usually prevent me from setting myself up as a moral judge over everyone else.
A sudden lapse of both those virtues resulted
in this essay. Probably for the last time.
A recent • cup' lamented that one must
insult one's friends to impress others. I'm
not going a step further and trying to disparage myself to the same end. My intention
here i~ to shock, not to impress. It is not
an ex~use for any observed insociability or
for ariy suggestion that I belong a few
centuries ago. You may hit me over the
head with it and make it my OWn epitaph, but
I won't take back a word of it. In all its
hasty conclusions and inconsistencies it is
dearer J to me than any . machine-perfect
treatisd; (Smart justification, eh ?)
King Arthur's closing words went something like:
• Ask every person if he's heard the story
And tell it loud and clear if he has not,
That once there was a fleeting wisp of
glory ...... nor let it be forgot that
once there was a spot
For one brief shining moment that was
known as CAMELOT.'
My Camelot seems to be fading away as
many already have. We are drifting into a
new Camelot which is deceptively similar to
Arthur's world. Eternal inspidity and physical and mental oblivion is promised. Will
we welcome it with open arms?

====

-TEE SQUARE

Physics Lab Record
14-8-67;
Expt. NO.3.

Mirror Galvanometer
Aim: (a) To hook from the laboratory
before 2 p.m.
(b) To rush to Eros cinema.
Apparatus: A senior's record, plus all the
junk that is on the table.
Theory: (a) When the circuit is open for a
millisecond, there is a kick in the galvanometer. Similarly, when the senior's record is
opened for five milliseconds, there is a kick
in your pen and readings from the senior's
record surge into your record.
(b) l.a.b.+l.i.f.t=g.a.t.e
g.a.t.e+ IoP=E.r.o.s
Where E.r.o.s=Adyar+a small
l
distance As.
All dimensions in Rationalised M. K. S.
(Madras Knavery Society) system.
.
Procedure: First, lounge around the lab
for llometime. Then connect all the wires to
make the apparatus look jazzy. Avoidshocks
and explosions. Now look around. After
making isure that all magnetic ·materials and
tutors are far removed from the apparatus,
carefully transfer a few lines from one record
to another. If the lecturer comes too near,
slip into the next room and suck a piece of
ice from a calorimeter. If you feel like it,
.get into a small scrap with someone. Meanwhile, pick the friend who is going to cough
up for you at the cinema. Now come back
and resume cogging. Check for the lecturer
after 5. la, 15,20 minutes.
Draw a line between the lecturer on one
axis and yourself on the other. The line will
intersect only at the lab. Now apply formula
(b).

Precautions: (i) The senior's 'record
should contain only • A' or • S· grades.
(ii) Don't quit the lab too early. Else
the lecturers will make you repeat the experiment six times or more.
'
Result: Met the lecturer at the cinema (!)
-VHNKY. _

KAICB.

