CAMP AS T1MES
CARICATURE

Thoroughly Modern
Mandeep
Surds have come and surds have left the
Institute in hordes. It has been noticed
with some considerable interest and a lot of
chop-licking relish that, by virtue of certai!l
inherent qualities which are difficult to duphcate, analyse or predict. this particular species
of homo sapiens lends itself amiably to any
concoction designed to depict the funny and
humorous side of life.
The advent of Mandeep Singh into IITM
was no ordinary event. It sparked off a
controversy which, to the best of our knowledge, is still raging in Parliament. It has
something to do . with the validity of· the
eritrance examinations.
The Mandeep Singh of today is a distinctly
revised and re-edited version of the Mandeep
Singh that we first met in the first year. Nobody knows when exactly the metamorphosis
took place. It is difficult to pinpoint the
exact day and date, but all are agreed that it
was somewhere in the third year· that he
became a gunman of knowledge, a sort of
intellectual bonfire, surprising people who had
long ago listed him as a modest agreeable dolt.
It wasn't until quite some time later that
we found out Mandeep Singh had started
reading Time Magazine, a habit he still
assiduously pursues so much so that one may
.
rightly say he is a man made by. Time.
One bright, sunny day he deCIded to up hiS
standards and get h~mself a pillow. It's not
very comfortable sleeping on a pile of textbooks-borrowed text-books-day in and day
out. So at the strok~ of midnight, on a dark
and moonless night he slipped into his faithful
sneakers, picked up his thermos ~ask and
went downstairs. He ,-"ead the· notIce board
nonchalantly as people are wont to when they
have nothing in particular to do, and stood
looking aimlC'.ssly here and there. The
thermos was to be his alibi, a silent witness
to his desires for water. Turning around to
face the mess, he put into action part two of
his diabolical plot. For every two steps for~
ward he took three backwards. The overall
impression meant to be conveyed to prying eyes
was that of one Mandeep Singh walking
towards the mess, flask in hand in quest of
water when in fact he progressed in a direction
opposite to the mesS. · The pheno~enon of
retention of image was to play an Importa~t
part in the plot. As luck would have It
there was one stupid gardener, not so well
up on his Physics, who could only discern
Mandeep Singh reach the Medical room stern
first and walk out with the hostel pillow.
The next morning, the hon'ble Warden
paid Mandeep Singh a visit presumably for
a first hand account of ' How to steal a pillow
and get away with it-.-al!Il0st.' When.asked
why he did it, Mandeep SIng tu~ned cnm~on
to the tips of his beard and saId somethmg
about his spine not being what it used t<? be
and the explicit orders his doctor had gIVen
him to use a pillow. He finished lam.e1y
with 'I just borrowed.it Sir. I was gomg
to, ~eturn i~, honest I was. You can ask
Gin...... .
, All right, all right,' said the 'Yard~n trying
to be nice about the whole thmg, but the
next time you want something .....• '
'Yes Sir, I'll ask for it Sir.'
'Good. Now then, how do you spend
your leisure hours, Mr. Mandeep Singh? I
can see you do a lot of reading. Is that the
latest Time Magazine?' He reaches out
for it, casually flips a few pages then
suddenly stiffens in surprise, •Mr. Mandeep
Singh .. I ? ! '
.
, Er •• it's from the Common Room, Sir. I
was going to return it this evening Sir, really
I was, you can ask Giri, Sir .... '
4

13

'Please see that you do. And thisah-chair7 '
• From the Common Room, Sir, I ... er ...I
. ..1 was just going to return, it Sir when
you came m, you can ask. . . . . . .
.
With a little more pleasant chit-chat m the
same vein about . the rest of the thin~s in his
room, including his new c?l~ect1on of
records, the Warden left, promlsmg to call
on him at least once every week.
Mandeep Singh is undoubtedly on par with
the Mechanical Age. He is t~e only .surd . on
the Campus with a mecharucal halt drIer.
And although he hasn't yet had occasion to
use it, he takes great pains to leave it in pain.
fully obvious places to let all and sundry know
he uses nothing so old fashioned as a towel.
He even took it to class one day and pretended
it was all a big mistake. Instead of picking up
his file he happened to grab the hair drier....

3
MATHEMATICIANS
When Hamilton went to hell
The devils began to yell
And banished him quick
Before they got sick
Of his incessant lectures on V .
Laplace in a similar plight
Got out of that joint quite light
For his inverse transform
M~de Hades so warm
That tHe demons were all in a fright.
But Newton had no such luck:
His equations of motion got stuck
When an apple fell down
And fractured his crown
And ma,~e the poor chap run amuck.
-TEE SQUARE.

MORE
MATHEMATICIANS
We begin with Euclid (a Greek)
In theorems he was wont to speak.
What he could not shew
He discreetly drew,
Adding , Q.E.n: - Latin, not Greek.
The year he got his Scooter his convers~­
tion followed a very predictable tren~. ~IS
opening pieces invll;riably ran somethmg ~Ike,
• Last time I was gOing on my scooter. , .. or,
• Have you ever tried taking four gU!S on a
scooter 7 .. ... ' His favourite story untIl a few
days ago was how. he cleaned the carburettot of his scooter SIngle-handed. He was the
only one who failed t.o see w~at was so fun.ny
about the whole thmg unul someone m·
formed him, tactfully one hopes, that what
he had cleaned was the spark plug, not the
carburet tor .
.
Whereas the whole of IITM IS US C?llege
bent, Mandeep Singh is a p.lall WIth a
difference. None of the rat .ra~e for Fell~w­
ships, Scholarships, or admISSions for him.
He has directly applied to a number of firms
in the US and the continent for a job. Not
just any old firm, but only those select fe~
which he has ' come to know t~roug~ hIS
own special and intricate web of m~elbgence
that have a desperate need for an I~po~ted
Maintenence Engineer, also called a ]3mto!"
And how does he ever h~pe to ,~et. thIS
challenging post? Well in hiS own InImitable
.
words • Pop's influence, Yaar!'
. In spite of aU the disadvan~agcs and ha~dl­
caps (none of them of hIS. own makmg)
Mandeep Singh has made It to .the final
year, ana )Vhen he passes out l~e IS .bound
to leave behind a vacuum which wIll not
be filled up in a hurry. However some
optimists seem to think he ,:vill l~ave .r:'0 such
vacuum. He'll take it wIth, him-In that
space between his turban and nose.
-ARVIND

JOHAR!.

Pythagoras knew aU about squares,
And for this reason gave himself airs.
If only he ttnew
Of sin P and cos Q
. And complex roots occurring in pairs!
Archimedes did spme work on 'Ti
But • Eureka' is his famous cry.
He was wet and distraught
When he had this thought,
But the rest of his work was quite dry.
Euler wa~'~oo clever by half; .
His notions made nobody laugh.
His lofty discourse
.
Has made him, of course"
,
,
The despair of the Science-teaching staff.
Einstejnd~ove everyone crazy,
Though hi,S theories were not all that hazy.
His idea that time
Can move back, is sublime-Especially if you are bor~ lazy.

Russell needs no introduction;
He has kindly given us instruction
On numbers~ and life,
And Enp.ing of Strife,
But practice has proved his destruction.
The B.ernoullis were quite a gang - They were twelve. I admit, with a pang,
That nine came to a stop
With no more than a 'pop ' - . Only three made a triumphant C Bang.! '

-So

PARAMESHWARAN.

