CAMPASTIMES

14

- ----~----.-.----~

PERSONALITIES

THE TALKING
MACHINE

Prof- S. Sampath

The Scene: Reopening day 1967. A scene
which has been repeated every year without fail
for the past four years. The time-8.32 a.m.
The lecturer strides confidently into the classroom (IV /5 Chemical). With one sweeping
glance at the neW faces in the classroom he
draws out the attendance list and belts out
the first four names. However, his eyes are
trying to make something out of the queer
jumble of letters that constitute the fifth
person's na,me. He hesitantly decides to give
1t a . try- D .. , Der .. , mgrmph I What is
this? NO.5, what is your name?' One
would expect a person with so formidable a
name to 'be no less formidable in appearance,
and endowed with a booIIling, resonant voice.
But he turns out to be a bespactacled, balding,
101 lb. brat who meekly replies 'Darryl
Cordeiro '.
_ Darry,l F. J?seph Cordeiro. (Lactus
Domestlcus Sphencus) does not offiCially exist.
The Academic section gives him a. new n~me
each year (Deryll Cordeire, D. Cordeira) and
the N.C.C. and the Gymkhana, not willingto
be outdone, chip in with Some of their
'originals' such as Del Kodal Yourself,
D. Condering, C. Kotexno? ...... His class,mates and the staff members call him anything
they please, for conceited as he is, he will
~·answer to anything you call him. However,
he is popularly known as C.B. the expansion
of which: would probably make an uninitiated
. .
fresher blush I
1

To those of us who knew him way back

Hn July 1964, he is a far cry from the Cordeiro
of old, who modestly proclaimed that his life's
ambition was to become a ' playboy'. When
asked to be more explicit he shyly said
'I can play T.T.' If the reader should wonder
how people have co-existed with him, I would
like to mention that Nature seldom endows
long-tongued fellows with bulging biceps i:e.,
C.B.lacks the muscle power to back his blatant
assertions. Therein, dear Reader, lies the
key to serenity, should you be approached
by a certain bald, bespectacled brat who says.
, Hi! Heard the latest ?..'
The first thing that could posl1ibly strike
anybody on entering Prof Sampath's room is
the Steel Cupboard. A successful negotiation
of this leads you to a large desk presided over
by an equally large figure. It is one of the
Prof's maxiIIls never to keep anybody waiting. and more often than not, his staccato
flow of words can be stopped only by the
advent of a caller. But in all fairness it must
be mentioned that he rarely fails to hold his
audience and senses interruptions very easily.

It is a peculiarity of the Prof's that he
rarely accepts a lift when proceeding on foot
towards the Electrical Sciences Block. But on
reaching it, he invariably uses the lift installed
recently, (he protests that he is not taking the
lift, but the elevator I) thereby vindicating the
policy of the elevator company of always employing a large safety factor in the design.
(prof. Sampath claims that in his younger
days, he competed with a scarecrow in
figure.)
Perhaps the most well-known fact about
Prof Sampath is his association with the acquisition of our new Analogue Computer.
He went over to the U.S.A. in Dec. '63, personally dismantled it, and shipped it over here.
The following story bears repetition. I believe the computer was sulking and refusing
to "York. Finally a slip read ' Call in. an expert I '. When one arrived, the curt rejoinder
was 'Man not expertl '. On Prof Sampath's
arrival, however, it said resignedly, 'Hell,
back to work I' (American computers are
notoriously colloquial.)

Prof Sampath has had what is blithely
termed a glorious academic record, spotted.
here and there with firsts and gold medals of
a large variety. His· record of medals won for
essay writing at Loyola College, Stanford
University and elsewhere qualifies him to
write for Catlipasti71ltJS. He joined the Institute in '61 and is at present the only Prof
on the right side of forty.

-C.M.
P.S. The author solicits contributions to fight
charges of slander, libel, character assassination
etc., etc.

Someone once remarked that a barrel chest
of the sort Prof. Sampath sports should be
very conducive to long distance swimming.
He however denies emphatically any such proficiency and adds that the only time he ever
tried swimming, he nearly didn't come up for
the third time; which considerably dampened
his enthusiasm for the sport. He has, on his
own admission, never really taken to games of
any sort.
The Prof walks erect as a guardsman,
swinging his arms in the best traditions of the
NCC, yet hardly seems to move his legs at all;
a phenomenon which should prove of inestimable value to his learned neighbour Prof
Ramaseshan, in explaining slip caused by
dislocations.
The Prof. is of the opinion that we, the
students, have too little leisure time to do
much extra reading and feels that 39 hours is
too taxing. We whole-heartedly endorse this
view, and are shocked to hear a rumourto the
effect that Delhi lIT is contemplating increasing their working hours to 39. Our Sampathies are with the students.
-MVR.

S~J< ',",Vl-\C~ VC,O i. CVTJ.lt
,~"'K'l.P~L ·lNi\JJo.I~E:~-·­
.,,~ ~ow 1 al\~ ONE: l

