CAMPASTIMES

POP
SCIENCE

[Goofy was an exraordinary character: screwy, talented, brilliant at
times, and i11corrigibly sensation-hungry. His spectacular, often unprintab!e exploits w~re the talk of the Campus, and Ite was a legend in !tis own
ttme. He tned just about everything, a11d writing for Campastimes
wasn't far down tlte list. (Well, he waSll't bom Goofy but Gopal
Ramachandran. The error tQas corrected ·vcry soon, though.)]

A Stanford. University scientist has made a laser eraser. Truly
God's gift to stenos, this laser beam vaporises ink so fast it does not
singe the paper. By scanning a page, you would make sentences
vanish like magic.. Think o~ using it for tattoos, stains, moles, etc.
Who knows, they might even Invent a laser tooth-brush precise enough
to burn up the dirt without melting the fillings.
yte. can't leave the subject o~ laser beam applications without
mentlOnmg a new method of numencal control of a machine. This is
an interferometric method .using an electro-optically modulated laser
beam and a reflector mounted on the workpiece. A forward backward
digital counter counts the interference standing waves and this data is
fed to a computer. The computer also receives data from a unit
continuously monitoring atmospheric pressure and refractive index and
th~ resul~ is displayed on a screen, .t~e result being the distance to the
object with an accuracy of ten mtlhonths of an inch fora length of
100 inches.
The whole unit is extremely compact and is being used in high
precision aerospace machine shops.
Glass fibre is pretty versatile. They've used it in everything from
boats, s~otgun barrels, rocke~ nose ~on.es to lingeries. Now they're
developmg a system to televise the. mSlde of the stomach, in colour
yes I Bundles of fibreglass conduct light down the throat to the abdo~

15

GOOFY, R.

men and the imnge is shot out through another thin bundle. One of
the top experts in this burgeoning field of applied optics is an Indian
Scientist, Dr N. S. Kapany.
Aerospace industries got another boost this month when a new
, paper' was' synthesized'. It's made of ' whiskers' of an aluminium
compound. A whisker is a single crystal and has a tensile strength
of three million psi compared to a few tens of thousands for ordinary
materials. You might not exactly be able to gift wrap an automo~
bile in this • paper' with ribbons and all, but it's expected to find
many uses in rocket nose cones, fuel tanks etc.
The latest development in radar technology is a method of looking over the horizon. Everyone knows that radar frequencies permit
only line of sight detection, but a novel technique. of tropospheric
forward scatter, which has already successfully been used in long distance
communication links, is being developed. The system will require exotic techniques such as high gain; liquid helium cooled maser or
parametric amplifiers, micro-miniaturization . etc.
Speaking of miniaturization, have you ever seen the Bible look like
a bus ticket? A newly developed process of successive microfilming
is capable of reducing the entire contents of The Encyclopadia
Britannica to a sheet of film as big as four or five post-cards. The
process is expected to .save millions of dollars every year in U.S.
Industry by reducing costs in handling and storage.

THB FIVB STOOGBS
AlN'T SHE FL~T(TE~EO

(Gus & Co., created history wl).en they pooled their resources
in an automotive venture. What follows is an account of how this
brainwave struck the five.)
, She goes 30 miles a gallon-I6 on gas and 14 on push.' -Ravi.
Actually it's my uncle's fault. We had been to visit him after
a long time and explained that it was difficult to come so far, so
often and-you know, the usual jazz. He said, ' Why don't you buy
a car'?,
I know of one, a '37 Austin, going for Rs. 900'. We
looked at each other and the glimmerings of an idea was born. C.K.'s
brow corrugated with thought as he tried to divide 900 by four.
He
gave up and suggested that five of US pool in.
Calculations were feverishly made, and checked by the accountant, Cammy. Little piggy banks ~e~e emp.tied and elder sisters
were requested for loans and outfight legaCies. Parents were not
included as potential money sources until it became imperative. This
was a pocket-money project.
Batty and I were commissioned to find out about the car.
Unfortunately, the Austin had already been. sold. Were we interested in a Skoda? The agent listed all the merits of the car. We were lost
from them.
When Gus heard our report, his eyes grew as
large as saucers while he gloated over such obscure data ~s O.H.V.,
hydraulic brakes and transmission, and the fuel consumption. Next
morning, we inspected the car-Gus and 1. We drove her up
and down a bit. Thrilled we went back to the agent's office and

?

bickered about the money-we 'were Rs. Ioooabov~ our",~udget!
However, with my eloquent pleadings (ahem I) and Gus's sad
cocker . spaniel expression the agent came to accept our terms.
We re.ported back to the Group.
A motley gang crowded about our black beauty and skeptics forecast
the future of the Skoda. Locking the car posed a pro"blem due to the
complete absence of door handles and locks. That night we slept
uneasily.
The next day, in swirl of dust. and with enough rattling to provide
the musical score, we drove to class amid cheers and jeers. Thencatastrophe 1 Our Universal joint bearing snapped. The Institute
workshop offered absolutely no help. In fact, borrowing a screwdriver
from them might be the final exam in a Dale Carnegie course.
(A tip to futUre adventurers.)
But soon, everything was okay. The tuning was done, th~ brakes
adjusted. and we hit the road. (Spare parts, anyone?) Psst I Don't
tell the cops that we did 5Smph (according to Kimbo's speedometer)
on the beach road.
But now, as I am out of the. contract, I can tell you more. The
claim that the Skoda overtook a .Standard Herald is true. Only, the
latter was not moving. One last bit of advice: avoid the car like the
plague. The gang are just learning to drive.
RAM SITARAM,

E:,:-slooge.

