CAMPASTIM·ES

Caricature

DAN DONA
At present the subject is in r<:sidence in
Narmada Hostel. To be ·specific, he lives
next to the bathroom. However ' it has not
made nny appreciable dent in the cloud of
fragrance enveloping him. One recalls the
well-documented incident in his znd year
when he was pursued through the corridors
by a Flit-Gun wielding Ashok Khanna. Indeed it is claimed he slays goats by exhaling
at . them. His .marked resemblance to a
character called Fagin has been a subject of
much discussion behind closed doors. I must
hast~n to add that he's very popular with his
lJ!other and father. A prolific short-storv
writer, Femina has published a story of his.
Blessed with b.o. and a good taste in records,
he is also an ardent collector of books and
magazines, ran~ing from Mad and Playboy,
to P,actical Wtre[tJ$$ and Femina (one is!lue
so far). His lumbering, swaying gait brings
to mind the southern end of a north-bound
bull.
He can do anything that Eddie Calvert can
do, except play the trumpet. Drumming on
a polythene bucket and playing on aharmonica wholly concealed in his big mouth Clre
among the activities of his formative years.
His dramatic career began on a bright note
in znd year on Narmada's hostel day, when
. he performed the part of a sweeper with
incredible accuracy and his characteristic
charm. The crowning achievement of his
career came when he formed 50% of Narmada's entertainment contingent. Regretfully,
his querulous and plaintive rendering of
«Eeeennnhhh? Whhhaaat did you sayynn ? "
did not find favour with the audience. He's
the friend, philosopher and guide of many
budding radio constructors, but his endearing
habit of absent-mindedly exchanging radio
parts has been found obnoxious in certain
quarters. Among his other charming mannerisms are his habits of sitting sideways in
class and never failing to visit the toilet during
terminal and final examinations. C Whaddayacall' has already been exploited, so I shall
say no more about it. .
Our hirsute hero's playing career on the
football field came to an abrupt end when his
groin came into· violent collision with a fastmoving b90t. Sin'ce then, he has ~estricted
himself to being·an enthusiastic cheer leader.
The winner of many regattas at home, he
has been an active participant in the Adyar
Boat Club's events. However, Rajendra
Sirpal lustily clobbered him with the business
end of an oar, thereby altering the geometry
of his face and terminating a promising
career.
Anil Thadnni, Esq., and our friend may
often be seen playing a charming little game of-.
their own. The rules of this game may
briefly be stated thus: The first contestant,
upon spying the other, bellows, 'Statue I I
you •••••• (words of endearment).' Where"
upon the latter immobilises himself for a
stipulated period of tiule.
c.' . Recently, our bearded bean worked in
Bombay for Larsen and Toubro. It is alleged
that, to alleviate the shortage, he gallantly
sold his entire water rations on the black
market. .
At present, he is rehearsing his autobiography by relating it to everyone he meets.
Well might one attribute to him the following words from Wordsworth:
«Yet shalt thy name,
Conspicuous and sublime,
Stand in. the spacious firmaments of
time,
Fixed as a star:
Such glory is thy right.
01 Charanjit, woulds't that thy name
live on forever I '
-GOOFY.

Focus on Pattabhi

OF P.J's. and J.P.
At the very outset let us say a few words about this illustrious
gentleman who with blood, sweat, toil and tears has dedicated his life
to the formulation and propagation of P.l's. His esoteric knowledge
in this field of human endeavour has turned him from a mere mortal to
a demi-god whose fame will go down in the annals of history. In our
relentless pursuit of truth and knowledge, we have decided to pay
homage to this veritable genius, (dire consequences indeed for both
this paper and the gentleman in question). ' Friends, read, and read
. well, this epistle which might well become his .epitaph.
Pattabhi and a friend of his once went to the zoo. They asked the
man at the gate where the bear's cage was located. The man pointed
to the zoo wall and said, I Consider this wall as a reference line and
the point where we now stand as the origin. Turn through an angle
of forty-three and a half degrees and walk straigh,t onwards for a hundred
yards.' Greatly impressed by these mathematiCal instructions, they set
out to see the bear. On the way, Pattabhi asked his friend, 'What will
the colour of the bear be?' His friend was naturally puzzled. 'It
will be white,' said Pattabhi. 'From the \1;ay in which its position
was specified in polar co-ordinates, it is obviously a polar bear.'
Once a transformer factory caught fire. The chief engineer, noted
for his brilliance in the field of electricity, was seen running .round
shouting, • FEE I FEE I' The onlookers were totally mystified.. After
the fire had been brought under control, someone asked him why he
had behaved so strangely. He replied, • I wanted to yell FIRE I FIRE I
but a sense of urgency compelled me to be brief, and I made use of
the relation E = IR.'
Have you heard of Pattabhi's friends x, y, z and t who figure in the
relation :l = f(x,y, t)? On the 15th of August, someone who had
been watching these guys asked Pattabhi why Sri z looked so downcast
while Sri x, Sri y and Srimathi t were whooping it up and enjoying
themselves. • Isn't it obvious?' asked Pattabhi, «x, y, and tare
independent variables, while z is only a dependent variable, and today
is Independence Day.'
C An elephant has only two teeth, a man has thirty-two teeth.
Can
you think of anything that has seventy-nine teeth?' asks Pattabhi. J.P.
gives the answer, • A gear!
Once in a station, a man asked our Professor why a particular engine
was taken and shoved at the back of the train'J Prof. explained the
phenomenon scientifically at great length. • I hope you have understood
everything. Reversible engines have the greatest efficiency. For the
best utilisation of steam engines, they always follow this method.'
It has always been very elementary for Prof. to fix up several
locations knowing only a few. • Mathematics helps me to a great
extent,' he says. Once when he went to Cotpadi (also known as
Katpadi), he sincerely believed that there was a place called Tanpadi
in a perpendicular direction because
cot (padi + 90) = tan (padi).
Gears, chains, belts - all come under the same category as drives.
Now Prof. asks a very logical question. I Why do people always give
gentS a very stepmotherly treatment? If chains and belts can be used
on dogs, then why not gears too?' .
The place-Krishna Hostel.
The time-During the Gymkhana Elections.
Goswami, in the course of his vigorulls campaign, entered Prof.
J.P's. room. Mter the usual campaign talk, as(he was stepping out,
the Prof. remarked, • Ah, you are now Goswami. When you came
in you were Comeswami.'

