CA.MPASTIMES
MR B. Madhusudan Menon, B.Sc.; 0.82 B. Tech. (alias Madhu)
cleared his throat importantly.
Not unusually, nobody paid any attention. After a fit of vehement
coughing, which produced no results either, he essayed speech.
'Say, yar, I got an idea yar.'
'Aw, shaddup.'
I Dammit yar, I'm gonna make a fortune yar, and if you guys ask for
lifts in my Cadillac, you won't get 'em.'

THE
When Madhu starts refusing US lifts in his future Cadillacs and Rolls
Royces, it means he is hurt. So Shenoy, Lionel, Varadarajan and I
lent him our ears.
Madhu now proceeded further. Before allowing him to proceed, this
chronicler feels it is his duty to introduce Madhu to those fortunate
few who have not yet come into contact (usually physical) with him.
Well, Madhu in motion is a living testimony to the veracity of the
claim that « Faith can move mountains '. Also, in addition to having an
interesting complex about Texas he is the possessor of an exquisitely
twisted brain. To cite but one example, when asked in a mechanics
class to design a device for a particular function, Madhu usually comes
up with a design that incorporates seventeen more gears and a couple
more tons of platinum alloy than are really necessary. Of course, the
functioning will be perfect, but the estimated cost of the device is usually
larger than the Indian Defence Budget.
To come back to the point, Madhu proceeded further: 'I say yar,
you guys know that diamonds are formed by applying extremely high
pressures and temperatures to Carbon. You want three things, Carbon,
pressure and temperature and you know what has all these three?
Guess yar.'

DIAMOND
Our reactions were identical. I Go jump in the lake.' • O.K., yar,
don't exhibit your ignorance, yar I' This comment we felt, called
for a stringent disciplinary action 2nd it was a slightly shabby and
dishevelled Madhu to continue to enlighten us ' ignoramuses'. ' Just
take an I. C. engine yar, increase the compression ratio and apply a
blow torch and you get diamonds in the exhaust.'
"When we had finished laughing, Madhu had just begun to lose his shirt.
• What's the bet, yar? You get me an I. C. engine and I guarantee I
will produce diamonds.'
, Har de harr har I '
• Dammit, you guys are the type to impede original research and
frustrate inventors. If Newton and Einstein had had friends like you
guys, they would be discussed in medical textbooks as nuts and not in
our text books----.'
He continued in this way of righteous indignation for a couple of
minutes until he was stopped by Varadarajan. «Listen, Madhu, I'll get
you an old engine. I think it can be made to work. If you get
diamonds out of it I'll dash, I'll dash.'
I You needn't do anything,' quoth Madhu, 'just recognise my genius.'

MACHINE
This is how it all started. Madhu managed to get the old truck
engine running and had scheduled a diamond producing run for "F riday.
The day he had announced it was Wednesday. We were all there at
the shed where the massive, but ancient engine was bolted to an even
more massive but inexplicably rickety bench. The self-styled genius
was giving us'a lecture on the improvisation and improvements he had
made. The engine looked quite ordinary except that in the place of
an exhaust tube it had a tin can with a "Vertical funnel to serve as an
exhaust. This contraption Madhu informed us, would catch the emerging diamonds. It seemed that he expected at least three diamonds on
his first run.

.IIEY! yo" t:ror
A •0' /N ETEOI

/

17

It was a funnel that gave us the idea. The next day we went to a
nearby jeweller's shop. • Look; I told the man at the counter • we
•
want to hire three paste diamonds for a couple of days.'
It was rather an unusual request. The man agreed, however and
then came the tricky part. We left it to Lionel. He has the adva~tage
of a cherubic visage that looks incredibly innocent even when the owner
is upto the worst devilry. Lionel put on his best smile (it is rumoured
that he practises regularly in front of a mirror) and went ahead.
• Ahem, you see we are---uh---playing a---uh--joke on a fdend of ours. The point is we will bring him with us and
you'll have to examine these imitation diamonds and tell him that
they're genuine. You see what I mean? '
He started hesitantly, but finished with a rush. We all looked at the
man eagerly. The funny thing was that he acted as if it was all in the
day's work. He agreed without a murmur and only commented 'Everybody is playing practical jokes nowa4ays, Sir.' If I had b;en in his
place and four such disreputable characters had come up with a similar
request I would have had no hesitation in handing them over to the
police as confidence swindlers.
. .
We turned up at the shed on Friday. Madhu seemed to be overflowing with confidence.
«There should be absolutely no difficulty, yar,' he crowed and then
went on into a long exposition about ~ompression ratios, fla:ne tempe,ratures, carbon deposits and so on and so forth. He was so engrossed
i~ his lec~ure that She~oy ha.d no (j.ifficulty ~n slipping the three paste
~Iamonds mto the !unnel. Bemg an electromcs man, he is particularly
~Ight-fi~gered ~nd m the event ~£ the collapse of the electronics industry
m Indla-wh~ch catastrophe IS generally felt to be inevitable if he
enters the, industry-he ca.n always make ~ living as a pick-pocket.
To cut It short, the engme was started With the aid of a couple of
str~tegic kicks and flowery curses, carbon injected, and we sat down to
walt for the results. When Madhu felt that enough time had elapsed
!IDd we felt that the e~gine was about to give up its ghost, he switched
It off. When the tm can had cooled sufficiently, he unscrewed it
placed it reverently on a table and solemnly removed the lid and hi~
jaw dropped.
'Gurk,' he said, «Gah gab geek goo I'
We interpreted the noises to indicate an invitation to inspect the COntents of the tin can and so we did and'Gurk,' said Lionel.
«Gab gah,' said Varadarajan.
I Geek,' said Shenoy.
, Goo,' said I.
For there at the bottom of the can lay not three but SIX diamonds
~hen we .had recovered t? a cer~in!; extent £o~r of us sprang on ou;
bike~, leavlIl;g M,adhu h~ldmg the Un can and LIon?1 frantically endeavourIng to kIck hIS recalCitrant apology for a motorbIke into life. Lionel
and ,Madhu caught us up at th~ entrance of the jeweller's, hov.ever,
and III we charged, Madhu graspmg the tin-can to his ample bosom.
The man was at the counter and in response to our breathless requests checked the I diamonds' • He seemed unnecessarily amused
however. All six were pronounced genuine. We left thoughtfully
Madhu triumphantly,
'

'What did I say, yar I' he gloated, prancing about like a mastodon
affected by St. Vitus's Dance, I Ain't I a genius? '
'Man, oh Man! Watch me beat it up! Two Cadillacs a Rolls
Royce and a visit to Texas! You mi~erable mutts, wanna lift, just say
the word.'
w.,e watche~ him mo!~sely, wondering .... when we finally managed
to ditch the shghtly dehIlous Madhu, I held a hasty confabulation.
, Look,' I said, 'that guy must have exceeded his instruc'tions. He
most probably thought we want himto say all six Were genuine.' Varadarajan is the unfortunate possessor of a trusting nature. «No' he
said, 'Those other three must be genp,ine.' .
'
«Why don't we go and ask the guy again,' said Shenoy.
, What are we waiting for?' said Lionel.
And so back we went to jeweller'S shop. And this time we entered
more sedately and ..... saw a massive back and heard a familiar voice.
'Say yar,' said the voice. • Forget those three imitations I had. The
others, were they genuine? ' I'
Nowadays Madhu doesn't refer so often to Cadillacs, Rolls Royces
and Texas.
Not so surprising, or is it ?

/-IGY{

you (roT

PE.RlOf)/&AiS
/IRE
"
1&-001>

