CAMPASTIMES

THE
THING
By R. SHANKAR

. ~ATISIT. ?

Rocket launching pad?
. Time machine?
Coyer for some underground operation?
Or is it a neW party symbol?
. God knows. And, . in addition to· Him, maybe the men who were
responsible for its erection know. Maybe they do, and maybe they
don't. I am not betting, when it comes to that Thing at the Gajendra
Circle.
:
If you're not the clod that your friend told me you were, you must
have guessed by now that I am alluding to those two elephants and
the two men posing at the Gajendra Circle.
Being a student of life, I have been studying, with growing concern,
the reaction of my comrades to this macabre work of art. Before going
into describing this masterpiece's influence on the sanity of the residents,
I must tell you how it looks.
The fact is that it does not look like Anything.
It consists of two elephants, which on 'finding each other to be unbearably nauseating, have decided never to see each other again, and
have, by mutual agreement decided to face opposite directions. The
elephants are fortunately painted black, as against the pink that was expected of the men behind its construction. Leaning on these two elephants are two men, who, like the elephants, have taken a natural and
inevitable dislike to each other, and are using an elephant's head, to
hide from each other. The men are short, undersized and wear badly
tailored pants. One of them carries a hammer, presumably with the
aim of self-destruction. The other carries a scroll. Some say they are
cog sheets, while others maintain that the scroll is his degree, in which
he has agreed not to use his ignorance to subservient ends. I remain
neutral. Moreover, I dislike the idea of presuming that these two men
-represent the students.
Coming to think of it, what do these statues actually represent?
'Opinions differ. SO!De say that the men represent the student .~ody as
'Seen by the staff, whlle the elephants represent the staff as concelved by
the students. Some connoisseurs say that it is the merger of the Zulu
war symbol and the Neanderthal rain dance. Some neurotics maintain
that it is all a vision, and that it will soon pass.
; Whatever the Thing represents, it sure has caused a lot of havoc. I
:shall now outline the reaction of men as they come fact-to-face with
statues. You can come to Gajendra Circle from four directions, not
that it makes any difference, of course. The spectacle you behold will
have the same disastrous effects on your constitution no matter where
you see it from. As you come near the junction of the four roads,
you will find road signs which will tell you to 'Stop, Look, Listen,
Brace Yourself, Leave it to Fate,and Proceed \vith Caution'. The
'sign of course, applies to pedestrians and vehicles alike. Those who

HIS LOGS-

IRREJ>R'?!IBLE

\

follow the sign escape with minor injuries like a cerebral hremorrhage
while those who rush towards the junction without preparation, find
the sight too much. I have seen friends pinch themselves with the
I have seen boys come out with
hope that it is all a nightmare.
'Whatwhatwhatwah' or 'Nonononono' or something along those
lines. I have seen stoics reduced to nervous wrecks. Pedestrians,
have, before my own eyes, dug trenches, rung up the police, or taken
cover behind the bushes.
I must, if I am to be true to my readers, admit that there was one
exception, Mandip Singh, who upon seeing the work, said, '1 say, this
is fab yar. I mean, dashed good taste what? My only complaint is
that they have not painted the elephants pink.' But this needn't worry
us, for we know Mandip, don't we ?
If you think our boys are gettfng knocked out left and right, without
doing a thing about it, you are mistaken. We at the lIT are built more
for endurance than for speed. We get swept off our feet initially, but
soon retaliate. We act. I shall illustrate my point.
It happened the other day, when 1 was showing a friend of mine,
who studies in a city college, our Institute. It was dark and the lights
had not come on. I was very grateful for this darkness, for we were
just crossing the Gajendra circle, and the statues could not be seen in
the dark. And then it happened. The street-lights came on. In a
Jiffy, as our eyes were trying to get used to the bright light, unfolded
before us this masterpiece of art. As for myself, 1 must say I took it
well. This was probaj)ly because 1 had grown immune to it, You
may find it hard to believe that I could have got immune to a thing like
this. But practice can do wonders. I have heard of men in the Congo
who are immune to cobra bites. Why go that far? I know people
who can stick me. It all comes with practice. It was practice that was
responsible for my cool response to the sight of the two elephants and
the boys leaning on them.
I
But not so with my friend~ He went through the usual formality
of gasping for breath, getting h~terical, and in short, imitating Macbeth
on seeing his ghost friend gat~-crashing for dinner.
But such attacks do not leave any lasting marks. My friend soon
recovered. He tried to be diplomatic and started praising the works.
, Nice work, nice work,' he said, .:11 must say that you fellows have damn
good taste. Just see how realietic these statues are I Especially that
boy with the sticks of dynamite t I '
, Which boy?' I ejaculated, for the set-up consisted of only two
morons one holding the hammer and the other the scroll.
e That boy there with the sticks of dynamite, kneeling under the
elephants. I must say that he is realistic I'
One good look revealed that the reason for the boy looking real
was that he was real. I ran towards him, and even before I could ask
him what in the name of blazes he was doing' with the dynamite, he
broke down and started sobbing over my shoulder.
, I just have to do it,' he said pleadingly, 'can't you understand? I
just have to blow it up. Imagine showing your parents and friends
and relatives this eyesore I What will they think of you after this ?
Wouldn't they, in future, exchange pregnant glances whenever you talk
of your Alma Mater r Wouldn't they give you knowing glances when you
tell them that your Institute is the symbol of modern thought? While
you brag about the Humanities block and the Open Air Theatra wouldn't they crush you with a nasty remark on these elephants? I just
have to blow up the darn thing.' He added, like all culprits do in
Hitchcock's movies, that he had just developed an irresistible impulse
to do it.
If I had been Freud, I would have asked him if he saw his
teacher's image in these statues. But not being Freud, and on the contrary,
being a man who had constantly been troubled by the memory of this
ghastly apology, I gave him a sympathetic glance. I said, • Bite the
bullet like a man. Take it stoically. Life can't be all roses. There
will be a few Gajendra Circles in everybody'S life. Face it like the
other calamities in Nature, rain storm, hurricanes, Rudolf Lobo, and
the RC.C.'
That night I offered a silent prayer to the Lord. I prayed for
the men who had been behind this grotesque outrage. I prayed,
c Oh Lord, forgive them, for they knoW' not what they do.'

WE

owE

tt'''''tIlU<:H
so
I

