CAMPASTIMES

21

O ,b ituar.!y

A PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT
days the class had been looking for~al"Ci to the arrival of.-the new' lect~rer with
FORincreasing
curiosity. How vulnerable he would be to proxies and how !tberal he

THE OUTDOO,RCLU'B

would be with the S's were the subjects of endless speculation. Ho,:" well he would bc
able to teach didn't seem to bother anyone. Why worry unnecessarily when, excellent
text-books are available? In the meanwhile, a few- illcmablc optimists ltept alive the
hope that the iecturer would not be a ' he' as everyone else seemed,to assume.
. It is the class on Saturday. The strain of
the morning's periodical and the anticipation
of the longed-for weekend have combined to
produce in the class a mood of extreme restlessness. The excruciatingly dull doublehour lecture just over has done nothing to
improve matters. To top it all the new
lecturer comes into the room mercilessly on
time with a terryfying handful of chalkpieces. Ignoring him half of the class walk
out to the verandah for a breath of air.
Those remaining inside are in- various attitudes of relaxation-yawning, talking, or
throwing about bits of chalk. One or two
hopefuls who were on their way to the hoard,
where they int~nded' to write 'LET US
OFF' in multi-colour, Veer off course and
leave the room on seeing the lecturer enter.
The latter is already annoyed. He raps on the
table with his duster and shouts,
, Silence, settle down, silence I '
In response to this a noise like steam
escaping from a boiler is heard from various
parts of the room.
• Shhhh, shhhh, shhhhhhhh .•.••• '
Evidently the class is helping him achieve
silence. The lecturer is taken aback but concealing his surprise says,
'Stop it, don't behave like children;
Silence:

He says,
.. Who said that? Stand llI) ! Stand up at
once!'
,
C "Vho said
what, Sir?' asks someone
innocently.
The lecturer knows when he is beaten.
GrimlY he returns to the roll-call. C Krishnan,
Kumar, Mukundan .. '.'
Variations of the basic' Yes, Sir,' follow
one another from different parts of the room:
''A Sir" Es, Saar,' 'Yessir' and so on.
Then ;uddenly in answer to 'Narayanan',
two voices are heard loud and cleal-. The
lecturer is infuriated. With deliberate calm
he closes the attendance-register and faces
the class with an expression that would have
done credit to a screen-villain.
'Gentlemen,' he says in a voice dripping
sarcasm "as a reward for your excellent behaviour' each one of yon will lose his
attendance for this entil'e week.' His gaze
sweeps witheringly over the absolut~ly i~­
different class. 'Before I proceed WIth thIS
lecture I want these two ... gentlemen who
gave proxy for Narayanan to stand up.'
He pauses expectantly, the personification
of severity. A dozen pairs of feetshuffie and
scrape under the desks, but no one gets up.
At the end of a minute ' the lecturer is still
the only person standing. • If those culprits

The Outdoor Club in our Institute would
have practically died at birth but for the
support of a few sCore enth.usiasts ~' However,
as they say back home inVirudhunagar,
'Happiness can't buy money.' So they had
to shell out hard cash-mainly spent on cooking utensils. The , official launching of the
club activities took place last November, and
a number of · (ahem) expeditions 'set out for
the wide open places.
R. Kabilanled a bunch of land-lubbers on a
catamaran trip to Mahabalipuram: -It seems
aI' Man Wind welshed on them and nightfall
found our heroes paddling away swearing like
tme sailors. They took . two day~ to reach
their clestina~jon,' sailing ill shark-infested
,I
watel's.
Another bunch led by R~' Veera Raghavan
went on a motorized round-up of picnic spots
and tourist traps all round lhe South, covering
Sathanur etc.
A more ambitious group led by that anthropoid Jai took off 011 a cycle trip to Vellore for
a climbing holiday. A point of interest is
that on the return leg, Jai and S.K. did the
last 18 miles to Madras in one hour (after
already having covered seventy miles). Maybe
their watches stopped.
The chronicler must admit that like the
dumb jerk it is claimed he is, he busted his
leg and spent the vacation on ice.
During the winter vacation, some members
went on a ninety-mile hide from Kodi to
Munnar on I the Annamalais. They came
back, ten days older and as many pounds
lighter ~ It was climaxed by the successful
assault ' (to make it sound jazzier) on th,e sum
mit of Aanaimudi (8841 ft,). It may be
noted that the rock face was previously unclimbed. This , is the highest mountain
south of the lfimalayas. The forces of darklless would h~ve you believe that Dodabctais
the highest South Indian peak, but this is a .
foul imperialist lie . . Smite a mighty blow for
the cause of Aanaimudi.
The next recorded activity: two months'
ago, Jolm, Sirpal, Vinay Khanna and others
skedaddled to Venore, whcre harrowing cX
pedences were had by all. This writer, damn
neal' ended a distinguished line when his foot
came unstuck off the rock face, and he danced
on air at the end of a rope. ' T~1K of coming
to grief, you should have seen the other,
fellows' faces when they saw me safe, SOlllld
and sweating like a glass of .ice water.
Till a month ago, our climbers would go"
regularly to the Pallavaram quarries on Sunday
mornings.
Of course, most of the swimmers here are
O. C. (Outdoor Club) members. (Exceptions
will kindly button their lips).
-GOOFY, R.,
w

w

But as steam continues to escape furiously,
he :wisely . decides to clean the board and
give the class some time to settle down. He
turns ' and begins at one end of his legacy-a
board crammed to the last square micron
with calculations" derivations and figures.
But only ascetics can sit passively in class
during the last hour On a Saturday morning
and soon a chant of 'let us of', ! free period' ,
, let us off for once' begins. The lecturer
half turns and begins a futile sermon but
suddenly ·' the duster slips from his fingers
and falls on the dais with a clatter only lIT's
dusters can ' make. Instantly the class eXpresses its • sympathy' at this misfortune in
a wave of sounds.' Predictably enough the
lecturer is not comforted. He glares at the
class., If looks could kill, the room would
have been strewn with corps~$;'
Now the lecturer .pegins .• to take the
attendance; Somebody .. ' has obviously been
giving him ' a few tips,; he -begins ' as though
he has just' recovered from ' a major throat
operation,..
"Aaron; Benjamin, Chandran. '.. ', he
whispers.
But thc little trick fails. Perfect silence
does not descend. Instead a voice rises in
protest,
, Can't hear, louder please.'
The unconventional pronunciation triggers
an explosion of laughter and the young
lecturer blushes to the roots " of his closecropped hair.

do not stand up, keep in mind that I can set
periodicals in which not one of you will pass.
Remember .. .' But the rest of what he has
to say is drowned in cries of 'Cheap, cheap,
cheeeep .... '
At last the 'lecture' proper begins with
the lecturer taking up his text-book. Prior
to starting his copying exercise, he asks,
, Any doubts on what we did last •• .'
A few chronic latecomers straggle in.
C Why are you so late? '
, Went to drink water, Sir.'
'You took twenty minutes to drink
water? '
'The cooler broke down, Sir.'
'Alright, alright, sit down. This is the
last time I shall tolerate this. Now, any
doubts on what we did last time? '
Someone in the back of the class closes a
90o-page American best-seller on his lap and
stands up.
, What are the portions for 'Wednesday's
periodical, sir? ' he asks .. '; '.
,Vith the smoothness of an old truck
travelling over a badly damaged mud-road
the period bumps and jolts to a prematute ,
end. In impotent rage the lecturer leaves ten
minutes beforc time.
Perhaps he doesn't realize it, but in a week
or two, when the novelty has worn off he
will happily. cease to be the object of any
special' attention', What he is going through
now is merely a passing phase, a transitory
period of adjustment.

-So R.

NAIR.

JUST IIT-j~ns
Higgledy-piggledy
Guitarist R. Kelly
Sang to a COilpie of
Psychiatrists
Audiellce response ~lVas
Purely professio/lal
Kell:y;s 110U; just a
S aliloquist.
Higgledy-piggledy
Khu.shroa Kapadia
Ultra-mor01lically
, Fell dml)1t the stairs
Afraid bf altitude ,
He Clitlibs up pogo "ami
Bamlister-phobia
With him, £s rare ..
Higgledy-pigglecJy
B. Vell~at,eshwarall
Serious c01iformist '
Noted a flaw
Characferistically ,
Light-hearted tna1liacs
Crave to deposit him
1" Shangri-la.

-N.I\..

