22

CAMPASTIM"ES

Personal ities

The two and more .
Faces of
Dr Swaminathan

HYDRAULICS
(Once upon a time, the water situation in the Campus was pretty
bad: indeed, people went round being caustic and cynical. This
article is one of the products of that cynicism.)
The reported decision of our Registrar to rename our hostel.> as
the Sahara Hostel, the Kalahari Hostel and the Arabian Hostel, has
raised a chorus of protest from all quarters. Such drastic steps were
rendered unnecessary when the hosteIites bound themselves under oath
to adopt the following resolutions to exorcise the ghost of water that
has haunted the Campus.
1. that a Beatnik Club be formed, with Mr. Randhawa as the
Secretary.
2. that "asam be stopped forthwith in all messes,
3. that shaving with our electric razors be banned,
4. that the tennis courts and the football grounds be closed
(and all vigorous games be avoided),
S. that no bathing be allowed in· the Campus except under the
pain of immediate dismissal from the hostel, or what is worse, transfer
to the other IITs in the North. Note: Experiments have shown
that the Eskimos are the healthiest race in the world,
6. that members of the hostels will co-operate with the
authorities in detecting hydromaniacs from Kerala,
7. that tissue paper he provided in plentiful supply,
8. that all inmates shall lick and polish their own plates before
leaving the mess,
9. that on rainy days, students may be allowed to (;omeout of
the .lecture halls and have their baths in the open,
10. that all chemical engineers in the Campus . shall concentrate
upon inventions either to make salt water sweet or to create artificial
rain by injecting sodium iodide into the clouds that pass over the
Campus,
IX. that as a punitive measure, water may be deleted from the
portion for study in the Chemistry exam.,
12. that the Security Officer be responsible for all illicit distillation
of water inside the Campus,
13. that water may no longer be recognized by its definition in
the Oxford Dictionary: .•..•.. (well, look it up yourself!)

. A straggling beard streaked with grey,
piercing deep-sunk eyes, a cynical smile-and
you are face to face with Dr Swami nathan.
YOll could also identify him by the lack of a
few buttons here and there. There are those
who hold that if ever beauty competitions
were to be held for the various curiosities in
the campus, he would have a tough time
.coming first eveR jf the only other entry were
the Gajendra Circle. However, appearances
are deceptive. Here we've got something to
beat the chameleon changing its colour-Dr
Swaminathan before and after a session with
his neighbour's powered lawn mower. Since
Campastimes could never afford to fight a libel
suit, let me not pursue this any farther.
Dr Swaminathan joined the Physics Department in '63. Ever since, nothing has remained the same. People started actually understanding mechanics in the first year classes. It
would be unfair to him to attribute the positive brilliance of his lectures to his wellmodulated voice with its untraceable accent.
However, it does help to be able to make out
what the lecturer is saying in the first place.
Perhaps that's the reason why so many of his
coUegues talk unintelligibly-they could certainly take a lesson from him. Even his habit
of occasionally marking the periodical grades
in Russian has its benefits-the guys who are
expecting C's or worse can keep kidding
themselves till January.
Asked for a few printable facts about his
past career, he replied, ' Let the past remain
dead, gentlemen-suffice it to say that I was
a rather indifferent student.'
However, that doesn't discourage him: he
realizes he is in the good company of Einstein
and others. From which it may be gathered
that modesty is not one of Dr Swaminathan's
shortcomings.
At present he is at Cornell University, persecuting molecules and digging out their
private secrets. But he'll come back after he
has finished civilizing the natives out there.

-RAT.

REGISTRARSUNTERSCHRIFTENMASCHINE
I

MACHINE FOR PUTTING REGISTRARS SIGNATURE.

