CAM'PASTIMES
·_----_._- _. __._-_.. _._--------.. _-----_._--_
.._ _-_. __.__-'-'
..

AN

EYE FOR A

It was Killjoy who first suggested to me
that I write an article to enlighten the general
reading public on certain goings-on in our
hostel~Hostel X;· let's say. Whether you
should thank him or curse him is something
you can decide only after you have read
through my laborious composition.
I will be wise and logical, and say we will
start at the very beginning. Very well, the
very beginning of this affair was when rubber
made contact with fabric. Perhaps I had
better explain: Botti was bending. Those
who know Botti will know what I mean. I
won't say anything about his personality; for
naturally, I am prejudiced, but there cannot
be any controversy over the ampleness of the
proportions of his person. A conservative
estimate of the force with which his radially
symmetric body attracts the earth is in the
region of two hundred pounds. Personally,
I favour a much higher figure. He would fiU
out any decently oversized set of clothes, but
Botti is given to wearing tights. And as I
said, Botti was bending. My foot itched. I
had to work my self-control to absurd extents
to limit my self to a tame, • I say, Botti!'
• Gnwak ?' Botti used that particular interrogative for almost all purposes. And he
straightened up from his.,... er ., .. painting.
Don't blame me - - it is he who calls it
, painting'. Ours is a free country and every
citizen is entitled to hold his own opinion.
But I doubt if Botti can be classed as a
citizen. (More like ten, as somebody remarked.) As to the opinion aforementioned,
it is an assault on human sensibilities. But I
digress.
• How ahout passing back my Machine
Drawing sheet, yar? We gotta submit it
today.'
'Hard luck, fish. I 'have to cog two more
figs. Ya submit it late, thashall t '
Shall I describe his voice or my immediate
mental -reaction ? My vote goes to the
reaction. It was a classic miiture of surprise,
pain and bitter regret. Surprise, at myself
for not having predicted that the rotter would
do this. Pain, at the thought of having
to explain the reason for my tardiness in submission of the fruits of
foUr hours of hard labour. And bitter
regret for a wasted opportunity. I was
wearing pointed shoes, and Botti had been
bending. I suppose I said something. I
have.. no recollection of it, but, Botti later
claime,d that my language was 'absolutely
vile'. I admit I was a trifle annoyed - - be
that as it may, Botti put on a show of being
quite unmoved at my plight or by my words.
With an air of supreme indifference, he turned around and recommenced painting. In
doing so, he bent.
It would have taken hardly three seconds,
but I savoured the moment to the full. It
was along a graceful circular arc that the tip of
my patent leather shoe moved. I am a football player. It doesn't need a professor in
Applied Mechanics to calculate the momentum. transferred at the moment of impact.
A dull explosive thud marked the instant.
A few milliseconds later, an audio frequency
signal, indescribably rich in harmonics and
of a power of a couple of million decibels,
assailed my auditory apparatus. They should
check the roof of the hostel for cracks and
things.
Having acted on the spur of the moment,
I scooted, fearful of the consequences. Botti
made an infinity of promises to me in the
interval of time subsequent to his unearthly
screech. And, of course, he gave me a
detailed description of my ancestry in the
juiciest terms imaginable. Had not my
physical welfare been at stake, I might have
paused to admire this maestro, for Botti is
: past master in the art vulgarly known as
name-calling. But, being possessed of a
modicum of common sense, I vamoosed
while' he was still in the process of extricating his corporation from the mess of paint
and shredded canvas to which he had reduced his room in his desperate attempts to

23

.

BOOT

collar me. The hostel was still vibrating to
the throes of his distress by the time I had
reached the HSB, or so they tell me.
By the way, his voice. It is thick and
guttural and makes you think of the Gestapo
coming for your blood.
That's how it all started: Heaven only
knows how it will end, for Botti magnified this
trifling incident into something of colossal
proportions. He has declared open war.
His first manoeuvre has been to paint a
caricature of me on my Machine Drawing
sheet. A dirty trick if eVer I saw one. He
somehow managed to stick it up 011 the
notice-board. All I can say is that this picture
of something labelled me in a not-verypleasant pose created a minor sensation
amongst the sleepy denizens of Zoo X before
I could discover the whereabouts of the attender - - and the key to the notice-board lock.
Bah, the next person who laughs at me is
goin' to get a couple of broken teeth I The
prospect of another four-hour session with
Tee Square & Co. is not calculated to
put anyone in a sweet humour. And then he
sent me a gibbering note :
, Sri Bottifour Battlereel considers himself to be in a state of war with Sri Pootsimboos Unohoo, and declares that it is his intention to pursue this war to the utmost of his
ability. . . • no quarter will be given and
none need be expected.
Now we Unohoos pride ourselves on our
ability to take all things in our stride. We
never let ourselves be weighed down by any
quirk of fate, even if it is as heavy as Botti.
If it was Battle, I was quite ready. Why,
with my superior intellect and remarkable
physical agility, I could make rings around
the odious Battlereel while he was in the process of raising steam in his'ponderous system.
I am an admirer of General Moshe Dayan.
I decided to follow his policy. . . . strike
before the enemy has a chance to do so. . .
and strike hard I
Little did I guess that the enemy had already
struck. . . and struck hard I
There are locks and locks. Some of them
are definitely unopenable without their keys,
some click open after a couple of hours of
toil and sweat, and some are amenable to a
little bit of persuasion. Mine belongs - - or
rather, belonged --to the last category.
The G-company may fancy that they manufacture the best in the world of locks. It is
not my intention to make derogatory remarks
about their products, but I must say that I
was let down really hard when I least expected
it. I might have guessed that Botti was some
kind of a locksmith from the way he dealt
with the notice-board lock, but isn't that being
wise after the event?
And so it happened that I shot back the
tumbler padlock, shot back the bolt, and
entered my room without the slightest inkling
of the consequences that would follow my
actions.
My literary talents fail me. How shall I
deSCribe the world of disaster that struck
me? Shakespeare would have hesitated before commencing 011 so momentous a task;
so would P. G. Wodehouse; so do I. Well,
no one can blame me for not trying.
There was a noise. A definite • tukk '. Then
a scraping, yielding sound. A halting thought
knocked at my mind's door, a hint that something fishy was going on.
The next moment, I was a fish-metaphori~
cally speaking. Only, fish don't swim in cold
soap water as I was doing. Trust Botti to
think of soap water. It came down and I
was· directly in its path, so that I got wet and
so did my room. Grrru-so I had walked
into a booby~trap-the old, old bucket and
water (1) rig-up.
My ears picked up evidence of unseemly
mirth, coming from the lower regions of
the hostel. It breaks my heart to think of
Botti & Co. standing there on the lawn
looking up at my room-and grinning like
so many Cheshire Cats. Will that raucous

• haw~haw-hee-hee-har-hee' echo in my mind
till I sink into the grou,l~d of mo~tification ?:
YEOW ! ! I UGH I n OMIGOSH ! Only
a low-down, dirty, mind like Botti's would
have·, thought of,Futting, tlJ.umbtacks under
the bedsheet. Why, people might get hurt!
A disgustingly cheerful whistling Was waf~
ted in through the window. It heralded the
advent of a specimen called Moos. A large,
unutterably ugly visage materialized· at the
window: A voice in keeping with the face
rasped out, • Howl'S life, Pootsimboos t' A
pause ensued, while the owner of the monstrous carnival mask took in the details of the
scene that met; his protruding eyes. ' Oh,
I see. Botti? Why don't ya jazz him up
in real style?' Another pause. ' Okay, I'll
go bury myself.
Don't glare at me that
way. I'm not Botti I'
It wouldn't be very much of an exaggeration
to say that at that particular moment I
could have torn Botti to pieces and consigned his remains to the interior of a. working
blast furnace. Luckily for him, Botti was separated from me by a flight. of stairs and
a considerable length of corridor. Otherwise
he would have undergone an.- interesting
experience.
As I wended my painful way down to
the mess for dinner, people took a glance at
my stormy countenance and made tracks in
the opposite direction. The normally tasteless chappathis turned to dust and ashes in
my mouth as I \vatched Botti gulping down
square miles untanned leather and tons ofdhal.
In this morass of black depression I found
the genesis of an IDEA.
Early. next d,ay, I left the· Campus. There
is a certain Science College in the City and
I know the storekeeper: of the Zoology depai:~­
ment, for I was once a student of ·that college.
I leave you to guess what transpired thereall I care to say is that I came back with a
large cardboard box. It would have taken
an acute observer to notice the holes on top.
On the way back, I stopped at the Chemist's.
I hummed happily to myself through. the day
and slept contentedly through the night. For
I knew that the morrow would bring its tankard of joy.

.

~

.

TRRRRRRRR. • .• the alarm went off at
six o'clock. A few minutes later, a disembodied onlooker might have seen a suspiciouslooking figure leave . room number 43z,
clutching a large cardboard box. Up. the
stairs it climbed, .turned off down a corridor,
stalked along it~ length, and stopped at a
certain door. The occupant was' evidently
asleep. The figure retraced its steps and
waited at the head of the corridor.
If the aforementioned onlooker had sufficient patience, he might have w'aited. to
see what happened ten minutes latei-. The
door which seemed to interest the prowler so
much opened at last-and out rolled the
unmistakable form of Botti clad in a kingsized pair of pyjamas. The door was bolted,
and Botti drifted along the passage to the bathroom to perform his morning ablutions.
The sinister figure moved fast. It nipped
into Botti's room and popped out again in a.
remarkably short time, and before you could
say' Jack Robinson', it had scrambled out of
sight.

There was a magic tenseness in the air as
I stared cOl1centratedly at Botti's Tocm from
the opposite terrace. He had just majestically
waltzed in. Developments would occur at
any moment, and I wasn't going to miss any
of the fun. With bated breath I waited for
the balloon to go up.
And oh boy, did it go up!
A frantic.
inhuman wail rent the clear morning air.
When Botti chooses to exert his lungs and
vocal chords,he sure can create a disturbance of
titanic proportions. A resounding thud followed by a spluttering, gurgling sound sped
out to me close on the heels of the first cataclysmic explosion. And then, a string of ear-searing
screeches which spoke eloquently of inexpresThe door
sible hordes of painful sensations.
(Continued on page 5)

