24

CAMPASTIMES

'-HI DAD'
',Howdy, son? '
, I need some dough.'
I What I What on earth for ? '
'The Convocation. The OAT's gotta be
rigged up a decent bit.'
• Oh, I thought it was for another of your
gay jaunts. How much do you need t '
, The usual lump plus a chunk for some
lights and frameworks around the place.
y ~u think you caf1 get them to pass that? '
Hmmmm ...
• By the way. Dad, how does the whole show
go ? I witnessed a coupla them, awright, but
I've never bin on top before.'
• It ain't anything unusual. The head of
the department puts in a word fOL' this guy
who's gonna swipe the degree, askill' me to
give the green signal. I tell' em to go ahead
and let this guy have what he's been sloggin'
five years for. You give him the document
and tell him to be a good boy.'
, Each one of them? '
'You take them in groups actually.'
, Couldn't I tell 'em all at one ~o? After
all, it ain't gonna make any dlff to their
behaviour.'
'No go, son.'
, Qllite an ordeal; eh, Dad? '
, Remember I've bin thru' this grill umpteen
times.'
'
'And Dad ... '
'Whathot'
, This Guard of Honour biz ... '
, What about it? '
, How about giving it a miss? '
, I'd like to .. .'
, Then what's stopping us ? Let's skip it.'
, Bllt the old major .• .'
'Yeah .• .'
• It would break. his heart.'
'Let it.'
• Oh no, that would never do. You must
bear these things, son. You wouldn't wallt
him sobbing on your shoulder, would you?'
, Okay, Dad. You win.'
, He wins, you mean ..... .'
, Everything going smooth? '
'Yeab, Pop.'
'The rain .. .'
• The umbrellas are stacked up at the
back!
, That isn't going to keep Vikram from getting soaked.'
• Better than nothing, though.'
Pause.
. 'Dad, didn't you folks think of this when
you built the OAT? '
• I guess we pulled wool over our own
eyes; the notion was mighty j.azzy ~nd ~e
didn't want a teeny-weeny conslderatlOn hke
that to put us off. After all, every new idea
runs into a hitch or two.'
, Why don't you let me go ahead and build
.a closed auditorium? 1
'Dough!?!'
, 'We could wheedle it out of the crowd.'
, If they had it.'
, I thought the Germans were pumping in
l1Uge sums.'
, Not for auditoriums, son.'
'I hope we get soaked today; mebbe
thaeR loosen your fingers.'
'Mebbe.'
, Oh Dad. I darned near forgot. Okay with
you if I give the kids a day off t '
, Might as well. It's been done too many
times to stop now.'

*

«<

, You.1ook cheesed up, son.'
, Who wouldn't with this set of mugs to
deal with.'
, Come, come., I've stood worse crowds.'
, How do you mallage it, Dad? '
'You get used to it, you, know.'
• Tell a guy to get a move on and he crawls
around as if he were a snail. Can't these
blokes take a hint? They act like they want
me to get pneumonia and choke. I had a
good mind to tell them to grab sumthin' and
hoof it.'
, I thought you 'WaJ,ted to get soaked.'
, That's all right for a gag. ' I didn't mean
it serious.'
'Thank your stars it didn't pour.'
c Oh, yeah.'
Pause.
• How about the movie. Dad? '
A look of intense disapproval.
C Easy,
Dad. I was just kidding. You
sticking round tonight or hoofing it back? '
(And so the conversation meanders on into
other channels.)
~AAJoo.

CARICATURE
-------

Chanakya Balararn
Some twenty-odd
remote village in Andhra
bunging names like that
normall'ational citizens.

years ago there was a small population· explosion ina
and it was called Chanaltya. Now, one can't go around
at unsuspecting kiddos and expect them to grow up into
Let's get that much straight, right away.

One of the first things that strike you when
meet Chunny is his nose. As a matter of
fact, after his ah-so-British manners. it is his
proudest possession. His opening gambit on
being introduced to pretty young things is
invariably, 'Ah! I've a Roman nose, don't
you think? " and as she is wondering whether
Sophia Loren, Gilla Lollobrh>ida or Marcello
Mastrioanni (being the only "Romans she has
seen) have noses quite like the exhibit A. he
adds, • I've often been told I look rather distinguished with it', which makes her wonder
how he could possibly look human, let alone
distinguished, without a nose (Roman or
native) on his map.
YOlt

But it is as a Scholar that Channy really distinguished himself. It all started with a
Fuels, Furnaces alld Refractories paper, a couple
of years . ago. The question, pure and
simple, was, 'Write an Essay on Low Temperature Carbonisation'. The answer-perhaps
not quite as pure, but certainly simpler, was,
• The temperature used in low temperature
cal'bonisation is pretty low, the gaseous products got are OK, and the coke left behind is
so-so'. He got an ' A ' for brevity.
A few innocent' UilS here believe Channy to
be the embodiment of brotherly love. They
had seen him at a local cinema with a bevy
of girls and not knowing the facts of life, believed him to be entertaining his sisters! To
this day, when their si!".ters begin to creep on
their nerves, they grit their teeth, think of
Channy and keep quiet,
Channy gn" his mobikc when he was doing
the third year, and since then he has ·maintained a steady 8S % attendance-at the local
magistrate's court for speeding. I'm told that
this, plus his class attendance, is always equal
to 100%.
Channy, being born in Hydcrabad, Andhnl
Pradesh, speaks very fluent Telugu...:-as fluent
as, say, the Telugu spoken in Switzerland.
He claims he is a settled Bangalodan and his
behaviour would have won him rounds and
rounds of applause, had he been born in the
days of the Raj,
By now you' must be wondering when I'm
coming down to his now famous stooge acts
(continuous performance on Sundays and the
days he cuts class wholesale). Channy is considered the Father of the modern Stooge

Act. (In villages, I am told, his pictures are
hung in between those of Gandhi and
Kellnedy). Take any stooge act and the cast
is always CHANAKYA BALARAM and the
other ,~tooges. These stooge acts generally
begin around I p.m. when he gets up from
wherever he is and announces, 'Blue Diamond thanks you for being present today',
dumps curry 011 his neighbour's head, does
a few steps of hoote-Channy-hoote, imitates
Doris Day, kicks somebody passing by ...
and the show is on.
I still remember the day he started the
, world of Stooge Acts. It was ill the glorious
1964, that gone-by era when stooges were
stooges and not the disgrace to the name of
stooging that you see masqueradillg about
these days.
The scene was all exam hall, where our
class was doing a physics periodical. Not
the whole class really, for Channy was at
his desk waiting for inspiration. After a
few moments he got a brainwave! He
pulled ~p the answer-book and drew a neat
margin. Then he drew a life-like sketch of
the supervising lecturer's mug. Further
brainwaves had come in by now and so
below the sketch he added a four letter word
(Actually a five letter word if you write the
plural fQr emphasis.)
Now 'it so happened that the lecturer, who
had ~een fascinated by the beak-nosed one
ear Her in the hour, was studying its peculia- '
rities from close quarters. ' He didn't quite
fancy what was going on in the answer-book.
So he uppity-ups himseJf to the dais and
screams • Mr. Balaram' You _ have given
me one--(here he used the same word to
which Channy had taken out _a copyright a
few moments earlier) but I'll give you two
big--(same word, plural) '.
:
This is atrocious, thought Chauny standing
up. Why, he's not even properly introduced
to me! 'Really Sir !' he said and a few
moments later, the world had her first stooge
act!
Channy was the Secretary to the Publications
Committee last year, and believe me, he 'did
a mighty fine job there. What with the
number of times he charged upto the
press and the amount of bull~work he did, he
has rUll down the resale value ' of his
z-stroke'iArab steed, but has brought up the
prestige and popularity of tIns rag mighty
high.
.
I could perhaps go on about his good
qualities and all that but then as Mark Twain
(if I remembel' right) put it-there is nothing
quite as frustrating as the annoyance of a
good example.
This then is the wlexpurgated, unabridged
and complete story of the life and times of
Chanakya Balaram. Of course, the spicier
stories of his colourful life have been left
out to save him the embm-rassment. In re,
you may say the article is a bit biased, but
then I'm, after all, a friend of his.
-GOPE.

C'ut OUT THIS
RECT ANG·LE.
GENTLY HEAT
OV'ER A FLAME.
WHAT DO YOU
SEE?

