CAMPASTIMES

A THESIS ON INDIAN
MOYIES
When one studies anything for a long time
he discovers a pattern. When Newton studied
the heavenly bodies and the stars for years he
came up with the Law of Gravitation.
I too have been studying stars and heavenly bodies for years-only these stars and
hea\'enly bodies are in the movies. And like
Newton, I too have noticed a few things; and
this thesis is a result of my study of Indian
movies.
Every movie consists of the following
sequence of events. AU the producers decide
before hand that these sequences will be included in their movie. Let's get down to the
sequences.

Boy meets girl sequence:
The reader will realise that if the hero and
heroine don't. meet there will be nothing in
the movie. So they have to meet. Since
they have to meet, the directors decide to
get done with the incident as earty as possible.
Let's take a typical movie opening. The
scene is the inside of the Trivandrum Express.
The hero is sleeping on the upper berth an~
the heroine is on the lower berth. He's got a
moustache. The heroine is always the one
without the moustache. (What's new?
Lovely girls etc.)
So this is the set up. Hero on upper
berth, heroine on the lower berth. The
train suddenly decelerate\'. The hero continues to move uniformly in a straight line and
falls out of the berth. But contrary to the
audience's fond hope, he doesn't land on the
floor and break his neck; he lands on the
heroine who is in the lower berth. You will
realise that this isa very tough thing. Falling
from the upper berth and. ~andjng on the
berth right below is a very liard thing to do.
But the hero has berth control. He'can do it.
This is what I call going out of the' way to
meet a girl. But, as we have seen, boy has to
meet girl. Fate literally throws them together~
The hoy falls tor the girl..
.. Well, .that JS · sequence one. (It ends- WIth
a duet.)

Sequence two. Meeting at the park:
The boy and girl who met first in sequence
one, have fallen in love. They have to see
each other again. Being a modest and shy
coupJ~ they choose, as the venue of their lovemaking, a quiet place like the beach, zoo, 01"
Mount Road.
A!; soon as they meet, they get do-\vn to
business. They respond to their instincts. Yes.
They begin to run around a tree, a bush, or
even a blade of grass; there has to be some
sort of vegetation. That's aU. Theydon't do
this • round and ,round the mulberry bush'
sequence' in sIlence. They do it with another
du!!t. During the song the hero tries to
catch the heroine who somehow seems to be
evading him~ This points actually beats me.
Why should a- girl call a chap to a secluded
place and deliberately avoid him? _ Maybe
one day I'll understand.. Let's go back to the
sequence.
The heroine now hides behind. a· bush,
The hero, who is un"-er the impression that
he is very thin, hides bdiind -a coconut tree.
The heroine, who thinks she is even thinner,
"
hides bl:hind a lamp~post..
Finally they feel all this is very silly and
come near each other. Do they kiss. ? Maybe;
We don't know. Because aU. we see next. is
t,vo flowers winging in the breeze, two·· birds
in a nest, two bees flying togelher, and a table
and a chair. These are supposed to imply a lot
of dirty things. I don't know what. Maybe
one day I'll und~rstand. .But I don't think
this is a real piqture of a boy meets girl
sequence-in India. It doesn't explain the
po~ulation explosion.

Hero

sneaking

into

girl's

house

sequence:
We now come to another tricky point. Although the hero hnd heroine have no inhibi:.
tions about doing the non-sensual things desctibed. in the last sequence in a public placl:',
fue1,are scared to meet in the girl's house.
i~~ t\\e hero puts on a beard and enters the
&t~y,.\l1:lu%e .. The girl's dad doesn't rl':cog-

-nize him. The girl's mom doesn't recognize
him. In fact even the girl doesn't recognize
him. He gets kicked out. What does he do ?
He does what any normal hero would have
done under these conditions. He sings. This
is a well known motto in movies. If you can't
say it in prose, resort to poetry.
The hero comes back the next time. This
time the disg\lise is milder. He has removed
his mush. Again the dad and mom get fooled. They think a sweet little female has come
to see their daughter. Even the daughter
thinks so. They go to the garden. The
daughter still thinks it's her girl friend.
Not for long. She soon finds out. At least I
think she must have, because at this stage we
are shown two flowers, two bees, two birds in
a nest, and a table and a chair.
You think I'm exaggerating. You can't
bdieve that a man can look so different by
shaving off his mush. You haven't seen
enough of movies, buddy. Let me clue you
in.
There was once a movie in which the hero
disguised himself by fixing on a mole on his
left cheek. To see if it was effective he went
first to his own house. Even his mother
didn't recognize him. Needless to say his
wife and children didn't either. That's how
it is.

Resolving the mystery:
This is the second last sequence in any
movie.
Between this and the previous
sequence a lot. of things have happened:
usually a murder takes place. IJl. a movie I
saw recently, the murderer leaves behind a
burning cigar each time. The inspector picks
up the burning cigar, puts it off, and pockets
it. He leaves the house with a flourish. He
will come soon when the next murder takes
place. (He loves -Cigars).
So who is going to solve the mystery ?
Not the cops. It's the hero. Herol:'S are
versatile. They can do anything. I'veseen
a hero hit a sixer over the slips. I've even
seen a hero who could act.
Let us see how the hero solves the mystery.
Initil1lly there were six brothers in the
heroine's hO\lse. All her uncles, one by one
they are murden-d. The hero is sure that
one of the uncles is the murderer, so he de~
cides to wait till only one uncle is left. He'll
catch the sneaky rat then. But he is truly
baffled when all the six uncles die. His guess
that an uncle is the murderer, is wrong.
What does he do? He doC's what any hero
would have done. He sings.
The next scene shows the hero, heroine,
and all the servants in the house. The hero
has called the police inspector. He says he
knows w!t0 the murderer is. The murderer,
he says, IS the forty-year old cnok. The hero
accuses the cook of bdpg, actually, a twentyyear old man, who sneaked into the house as
a cook thirty years ago.
The cork denirs this stoully. The hero
catches the conk. Pulls his m0ustache. It
crmes off. He pulls his beard. It comes off.
False beard. What cherk! He pulls the
hand~. They c()me off,· Man 1 some crook I
Finally we have only a hrap of clothes on the
floor. The entire cook was false-the beard,
mush, hands and all. What does the hero
do? He. sings. The song has its effect.
The driver comes forth and confesses. Why
did he do it? The driver explains-through
a song. So T don't know wh:tt he said. Nobody did. The song was in Swahili.

The Family Reunion:
This is the last sequence. The murder
has been explained. Now the family must
reunite. A lot of surprising confessions take
place. The driver shoots himself in the
mouth. As he is dying he tells the story.
'My child', he says, to the hero, • I am
actually your father. The heroine is actually
my brother's· aunt .. - The gardener is actually
my st(·p son. Whom you have been callingthe maid is actually my wife, and therefore.
your mother. The table cloth is actually your
si';ter. Your sister is actually the table cloth.
The puppy is actually the family doctor. The
fam~ly aoctotlsactually an'Anacin tablet.'

27
With these words and a final song he dies.
How do we know the dies? The pulse, the
heartbeat, the expression on the face? No I
We know he is dead because his picture falls
down from the wall, the lamp blowsou~,. and
we see lightning outside 1he room. This is
the usual recipe for death in the movies.
The death shocks the heroine. Her memory
is restored to her .as a result of this shock.
She goes and sits on the table. It seemS she
was a paper weight before she fell down from
the table and lost her memory.
The reader may fer.:! this is too much.
What's all this nonsense about memory going
and coming? Do these things really happen?
Yes, always. In every movie. The loss of
memory sequence is a famous one with the
directors.
I once saw a movie which begins with the
heroine as a normal college student. Then
she gets hit by a cycle and loses her memory.
So she runs away from home, falls in love,
and gets married. Now she gets hit by a Rajdoot, loses her memory and becomes a nun.
Now she gets hit by a Bullet (3.Shp). She
forgets her having been a nun, but remembers
her marriage and goes in search of her lover.
She gets hit by a Fiat. Now she forgets her
lover and remembers her parents. On the
way home she gets hit bya Boeing. She forgets her home and goes back to the Convent.
So finally the hero, the heroine's parents,
and the si~ters in the convent, hire an ICBM
and knock down the heroine. She regains
her complete tpemory.
So much fo~ the loss of memory sequence.
Let us return'tO our movie.
We were saying that the driv.er had explained the family bush tq one and. all and
died.
Now we get the pleasant surprise. The
movie has en.ded. The national anthem is
heard in a trance. You stagger out of the hall.
, You wonder why people who agitate over·
just about everything do nothing about these
movies.
- R. SHANKAR.

for

(S~r~nos
A ll)~a~

'1t nstitut~Olt

THE PRELUDE
. You wait, little lad, iIi the fresher stage
For Fate to turn the light on.
Your mind little lad isa vacant page
That many a fox would write on.
THE ADVANCE
You are ;:;ixteen going on seventeet;l,
Sonny its time to think.
lIT life with hazards is rife
And YOll might be left to sink.
You are sixteen g')ing on seventeenSeniors will fall in line.
Mystic experts and gastric perverts
May offer you gn ss and brine.
Totally unprepared are you
For tortur~ s in this den,
Timid and shy and scared are you
Of candles lit at tt'n.
You need 'guidance' from someone who'll
Tell you just what to do,
I am seventeen going on eighteen
I'll ' t~ke care • of you.
THE REBUFF
I am sixteen going on seventeen
Innl ,cent as: a doe,
Seniors I rP.eet may telIme I'm sweet
And I must believe, I know:
Though I'm sixteen going· on seventeen,
Hopieg to save my pride,
I am aware my chances are bare,
Yet I know who's on my side.
Still unprepared I well might be
But I am backl:d by Sen* ; ,
Timid and shy, I do .agree,
Now I'll be bold again.
Wardens' Council, robed in gowns'll
Willingly see me through;
Since you're seventeen going oneighte~n
I'll beware of you.
-TEE SQUARE.

.. Prof. Sengupto, then Director.

