28

CAMPASTIMES

Research

&

Development
~A report (rom ,Subhuman Sciences

Laboratories
Professor B. N. Sadist, Dr (Miss) K. Ann
Garoo and Dr Frank Einstein of the
S.S.L. have sent in a report on their
studies of mass decontrol 'o f human
effort, (MDHE), based on data on the
probability distribution of activities in a
typical IITian Class. They chose, for
their study, a batch of the X/Y, Q.
Tech. class attending a lecture on
moronography.
They found that, contrary to the general
belief, the one who is least interested in the
lecture is most often-guess who ... right !the lecturer himself.
Thereare two other notable points in their
records.
. t. The .number of students paying attention to what the lecturer was saying varied
with time throughout the period. They have
plotted the graph given below.
,
, Some remarkable facts emerge from this.
During the first quarter of an hour, the
processor d.ishing out proxies occupied the
attention of a progressively decreasing section
of- the ,class. Then, right in the middle of
the hour, the poor, tortured creature on the
dais lost the remnant of the demitasse of
temper. he normally possessed; or rather,
made a gift' of it to the class in general,
though, obviously, nobody wanted it. An
enterprising spirit at the rear end of the
class had kicked a tin can down the length
of the room: this explains the above-mentioned flare-up and· the consequent steep peak
in the graph.
.
The X/Y lecturer in moronography has a
unique distinction. He possesses an uncompromisingly loud voice, and excels in
verbal pyrotechnics. But not even his
linguistic blitzkrieg could sustain any intelligent interest in the proceeding-at least,
not any above the level of the much-maligned
amreba.
Perhaps you've caught sight of the wagging

,

tail-end of the graph. And therein lies a
tale. What happened is this: some decimalized fraction of a moron, b:!st known to the
authorities as a.aaa/goa decided to deviate from
the normal pattern of behaviour by asking the
lecturer some embarrassing question about the
imminent PERIODICAL. A considerable
percentage of the hitherto slumbering class
perked up and made preparations to grab the
pearls let fall by the Prophet, should he
perchance have made the tactical blunder of
making pre-periodical concessions.
, 2. The researchers have found that, in
general, despite the quantum of solace that a
member of the pedagogical profession may
derive from this abject dependence on his
words displayed by the Citizenry of Tomorrow,
he experiences a bitter inward revulsion because he knows he is a ·beaten man, whatever
strategy he adopts . . If he i$ tight-fisted .with
marks, he is marked down as an ineffectual
teacher; if he dispenses the needful liberally .•. well, wouldn't it go against the grain?
It goes without saying that the major
section of the class had yLlded to the
soporiferous air and was • snatching forty
winks, unauthorised' , to use Dr Frank
Einstein's own words. There were some
hardy specimens, however, who stayed awake
despite adverse environmental factors. Professor Sadist paid special attention to such
refractory elements in the composition of a
class. He finds that, of the seven who stayed
awake throughout the period, two were
devouring spicy literature, two were involved
in a heated debate on the absorbing topic of
who would get the prize for ' maximum
giving and getting of proxies' this year,
and one was writing a letter to his girl friend.
That leaves us with two unspeakable creeps
who actually LISTENED to the lecture 1
A pity; otherwise the graph would have
touched rock~bottom. Dr K. Ann Garoo
maintains that this cross-section is representative of all the classes conducted in the
Institute.
Sadist et al. are going ahead with their
research programme-and the nex:t aspect of mass decontrol of human effort
to be studied by them is the cloud of
\Ulexplained and perhaps inexplicable
facts and pseudo-facts that surrounds
the construction of our legendary
swimming-pool-to-be.
-POOTSIMBOOS UNOHOO.

•

~o

~

~

'q

.~

' WI

l~

1

~1

l\ ,
400

""

)I

~f,

~

.10

~

JO

,I

"-

~.

:10

IS

TII'1E

•

«<

(mis)

•

AN EDITOR'S JOB
Getting out it paper is no picnic.
If we print jokes people say we are silly.
If we don't, they say we are too serious.
If we pinch things from other magazines
We ·are too lazy to write them ourselves.
If we don'twe are stuck on our own stuff'.
If we don't print every word of every contribution we ~on't appreciate genius.
If we do print them the columns are filled
with ink.
'
If we make a change in the other person's
write :up, we are too critical,
If we don't, we ai:e blamed for poor editing.
Now, .likeas not, some guy will say
Wc 'swiped this from some other sheet
We did.

J

...
•

60

.

During the Second World War, the draft
board caught up with a young man, and of
course, wanted to pressgang him into a G.I.
uniform and send him out to fight. Well, this
one happened, .to be a particularly r,e1uctant
specimen of valour. He cajoled, he pleaded
and he begged to be excused from serving the
nati011 on the war front.
The President of the draft board was at first
puzzled, then angry and finally furious.
Giving the young man a withering glance, he
bawled out, ' "Veil man, if you will at least
givc me .a decent excuse, I might be able to
let you off,'
'Well siJ;', replied the reluctant youth, 'I feel
I will be EMBARRASSED jf I join the army.'
, Of all the flaming excuses I have heard,this
one positively need" crutches to get by 1 Explain yourself young man.'
.Harry (.('\>r let us bestow this name on this,
so far nameless, cockroach) launched into his
excuse, 'It is like this sir; Sitting here as
I am .on this chair .before you, there are two
possibi,Iities. They are, that either you will
select me or you will reject me. Well sir, if
you reject me nothing could be better; but if
you select me there are two possibilities.'
, Now if I am selected, either the medical
board will pass me or they will plug me. If
they .plug me sir, I, will throw a party, but
if they pass me there are two possibilities. '
He continued, 'They are sir, that either I
will be put into the Marines or I will be put
in the Catering and Supplies. Well sir, if
they put me in Catering and Supplies, it will
be great because I can make millions in the
black market i but, if they put me in the
Marines, there are two possibilities.
, Either the war will finish before I finish
my service (and I get a medal of victory fOJ;'
nothing), ¢r I w'ill be shipped overseas to fight.
Well sir, if the war finishes, I will draw illY
G.!. privileges and join an American University for free, but if it does not, then there arc
a lurther two possibilities.
Taking a drink of water, and ignoring the
tough looks of the draft board, he continued,
'The two possibilities now are sir, that
either I will stand up bravely in battlc and
fight for all my worth, or I will cower in some
shell hole. Well sir, if I do the latter, it is all
right, but if despite the prevalence of the
human instinct of self-preservation, I choose
to fight, there will be two possibilities.
, Either an enemy bullet will get me or it
won't; and if it does not, I might even get a
medal of honour, but in case it does there are
two possibilities.
.
• Well sir, either I will survive the wound
and live to dandle my grandchildren on my
knee and tell them my memories of the war or
I will die. Well sir, in the event of my death
I think there are still two more possibilities.'

/

409

E'mbarrassment

•

From: "MACHINE DESIGN"

. Near the Computer that works for the
Atomic Energy Establishment at Los Alamos
is a sign:

ACHTUNG
Alles Lookenseepers
Das Komputenmaehine is nieht fiir
gefingerpoken, und mittengraben. Is easy
schnapp en der springwerk, blowen fusen,
und poppen corken mit spittzensparken. Its nicht fiir gewerken by das
dummkopfen.
Das rubbernecken sightseeren keepen
Handen in das Pockets-relaxen und
watch das Blinken Lights.

' Will ~ou cut out the " well sirs" and the
" possibi~ities" and tell me what you want
to say?' bawled the exasperated board
President•
Unperturbed, the kid continued, 'The two
possibilities are that either they will cremate
me or they will bury me. Well in case they
cremate me sir, it is perfectly aU right but
if they bury me there are two possibilities.
, Either . a tree will grow on my grave or it
won't; and if it does grow at all there will be
two possibilities.
, Either they will cut the tree down for timber which is all right but they, instead, might
decide to send it to the paper manufacturers.
In that case sir, there are two possibilities.
'Sir, either they will'make me into ordinary
writing paper and then I have no complaints
. • . • . . . . but ...••••. just imagine Sir if
they made YOU INTO TOILET PAPER
WOULD,N'T YOU BE EMBARRASSED?'
He wJ excused.

-C.

SINGH.

Edited by P. C. Venkatachel~, Published by Prof. 5. Sampath and Printed by C. E. Koshy at the Diocesan Press for Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.

