IIT Madras, |5th July, I963

Vol. I, No. 9

IO nP.

PRESS AND THE |.l.T..
This is

THE

the last issue

of this volume.

Volume I was launched on the 15th August
1962 and except for issues interrupted by

the vacations Campastz'mes has come out
regularly though invariably late. Readers

YOUNG

will agree that this is excusable as competition
from ‘ Periodicals ’ other than Camper-times is

ONES!
Before you start reading this, make quite
sure you don’t have a date with a senior.
Now relax.

hinting, but you might as well take it.

The

I.I.T. has a reputation—and reputation is
something you cannot efface.
Debating,

very stiff.
It has certainly been a great pleasure to
have been the Editors of a University newspaper which has met with greater success

than what even the most plastic imagination
could have

dreamt of.

Volume Two

of

Campastimes will be edited by a brand new

The Indian Institute of Technology
(Madras-36) would like to shake hands with

table-tennis and brilliance in general are

board of Editors which will be a relief to both

synonymous with its name. Try your best to

all of you gentlemen who have joined us to

help keep the good traditions going, and
please don’t set up any bad ones! The AllIndia character of the Institute will bring
you in proximity with a wide range and
variety of ideas. Subscribe to any school of

the present Editorial staff and the readers
who have had to withstand considerable

complete the process of ﬁlling up all the
energy levels from ﬁrst to ﬁfth year. But it
can’t. A glance at the model of the Campus
will reveal why: It’s shaped like a boot !
If you are not allergic to lectures in the
afternoon, can do a spot of work with your
hands, and tolerate the mosquitos at night,
you’ll be just ﬁne. If you think that
‘ Coovam ’ was a far more appropriate name
for the hostels: so did we when we ﬁrst
came.
Your immediate seniors are a notorious lot.
They weren’t ragged enough! We are not

thought you

like, but political

ideologies,

religious bigotry and culinary dogmatism
should be avoided at all cost. The last trait,
incidentally, will get you into a bad mess I
At the moment, extra-curricular

talent is

concentrated in the present third and fourth
years. They will soon be leaving the Institute
(Continued on page 2)

‘ boredom’ 1
There have been good times and bad ones,

but they have all remained at the height of
controversy, perking things up when it seemed that life would settle down.
The regulars threaten to continue their

contributions and though they happen to be
members of the present Editorial Staff, they
have abided by a code of conduct and blue—
pencilled each others (as well as their own)
contributions.
This board would like to state that the
views expressed in Campaslimes have been

solely those of the authors and did not
necessarily comply with Editorial opinion.

Taking our cue from ‘Foreign Aﬂairs’;
though we do not accept any responsibility
for the views expressed we do accept that of
having given these views a chance of appear—
ing here.

As a result of our ﬂexible (but never:
lax) approach, we might at times have had to
print the names of people. We would like to
categorically state that if anything appeared in
print it was because we believed that the author

of any humorously defamatory article meant
no harm and that his victim would take things

in the lighter vein (which never reached the
heart !) To ensure this the Publisher had time
and again invited criticism and also requested a
very high authority to ‘keep an eye ’ and let us
know of any discontent in any quarter. We

are happy to say that none was reported to
us. On many occasions we have desisted
from printing things which were widely
known, not because they wouldn’t be news

but because it w0uldn’t be cricket.

We

apologise if we have been caught in any slips !
This is the proper place to express our
gratitude and thanks to all our contributors.
If this chronicle has attained a respectable

stature all over Madras (in spite of its ‘ private ’
circulation), it has been in no mean measure
The joint entrance examination was con—

mittee) and Prof. B. Sengupto (Director of
Madras I.I.T.). Others in the Interview

due to the suggestions for improvement we

and interviews were conducted at the ﬁve

I.I.T.), Prof. G. S. Sanyal (from Kharagpur

centres on the basis of the results of this

II.T.), Prof. C. Balakrishnan (frOm Bombay
I.I.T.), Dr. G. Vcnkataraman (from Bombay

have received from so many of our readers
both within and outside the campus. No
organisation can hope to prosper without
criticism. Campastz'mes circulates only among
those who can think for themselves and it is
upto our readers to agree or disagree with the
j (Continued on page 2)

viewers in the photograph are from left to

I.I.T.), Prof. Chanda (from Regional Engi—
neering College, Durgapur) and Mr. R.

ELSEWHERE

right :-—Prof. H.

Natarajan I.A.S. (Registrar, Madras I.I.T.).

Institutes of Technology at Bombay, Kanpur,
Kharagpur and Madras and the College of

Engineering and Technology, New Delhi,

examination.

Photograph shows acandidate

being interviewed at Madras.

The inter-

C. Parameswaran (from

Board were

Prof. K. S. Sankaran (from

Madras I.I.T. and Joint Secretary of the
Committee), Prof. B. R. Sen, (from Kharagpur

Kanpur I.I.T.), Prof. S. D. Seghal (from

Kanpur I.I.T.), Dr. V. Ramakrishna (from

Two hundred and ten students were admit—

Delhi C.E.T.), Dr. S. K. Srinivasan (from

ted into the Indian Institute of Technology,

Madras 1.1T. and Secretary, Joint Entrance

Madras—7o in Mechanical, 40 in Electrical,

Examination Committee), Prof. S. Sampath

40 in Chemical, 40 in Civil Engineering and
20 in Metallurgy.

(from Madras I.I.T., Chairman of the Com-

Page
Auto-Suggestion
Idiot’s Diary
Men of Principle
Our New Serial
My Jaundiced eye
Doctor at School

.
..
. .
. .

KO com—nu N

ducted for admission into the four Indian

