[July |5th. I963

CAMPASTIMES
CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEM E NTS

The Young—(Continued from page I)
Ad. No. I.I.T /K.H./II-ooz/63.
ADMISSION TO KAVERI HOSTEL
MESS FOR DAY BOARDERS
Applications (6 Copies) are invited from
such of the staff members (bachelors and
married bachelors etc.,) who are desirous of
availing the opportunity of joining the Kaveri
Hostel as day-boarders. The application
should contain the following (All details must
be given in words, and not in dashes or dots,

as the morse code is not easily decipherable) :
I. Name (in Block Capital Letters;
Surname, if any, to be underlined):
2. Age (proof of age to be attached).
. Designation and full postal address.
Permanent address.
Educational qualiﬁcations.
Social status.

Normal timings of hunger, appetite etc.
.

Conduct Certiﬁcate, preferably from a

person under whom the candidate has taken
food.
9.

Clearance certiﬁcate from a responsible

person, to the effect that the candidate has no
debts, is to be attached.

10.

Medical certiﬁcate to the effect that

the candidate is ﬁt enough to take food in the
The Height of Freshness!

Kaveri Hostel.

A candidate, if selected, should be prepared
to pay a security deposit of Rs. 30,00 or Rs.

6000 (whichever is suitable).
Preference will be given to those who have
.perseverence and patience. Those who have

previous experience will be preferred. Those
who are in foreign departments (Post Ofﬁce,
State Bank, N.B.C.C. etc.) should send their

applications through proper channel. Canvass-

(that’s for sure ‘cause even curricularwise

they are O.K.). We hOpe that you have in
your midst untapped talent waiting to explode at the slightest provocation. The Open
Air Theatre is meant for this purpose, and
we hope to see an introductory preview in

ing in any form will be a disqualiﬁcation.
Application should reach the Manager,

the near future.

Kaveri Hostel, before 7th August, 1963. A copy

You will be introduced to a very wellmeaning system of tests and periodicals which
you will ﬁnd both new and refreshing. Apart
from the cram routine just before the ﬁnals,

of the rules and regulations of Kaveri Hostel
Mess Can be had by sendingastamped (15

nP.) and self addressed oblong size cover (23

you will also have to keep your pencils
sharpened throughout the year. All part of
the game and if you follow the rules, you'll
always be the better player.
Engineering is a practical discipline taking
things in their totality and is in that respect
closer to philosophy than many other
sciences. Apart from a career, there's a lot

of fun in it. And now a very practical tip :
The young ladies of Madras, don’t try getting
fresh with them !

cm. x 10 cm.).

The Asst. Warden / Kaveri Hostel reserves
the right to entertain all applications or no
applications, whichever is less.
(Sd.) ASST. WARDEN.
To celebrate their Khamgpur Victory
R. A. VASWANI AND T. S. ANANTHU

the complex has broken the emotional fabric

invite you to lunch at
HOTEL DASAPRAKASH
P.S.: It is hereby notiﬁed that the date

of the lunch is changed from the thirty-ﬁfth
day of the fourteenth month of the year
Seven Thousand Seven
Hundred and
Seventy Seven to the same day and the

same month of the Year Eleven Thousand
Eleven Hundred and Eleventileven.

P.P.S.:

Please bring your own lunch

packages.
P.P.P.S.: Thank you.
Press—(Continued from page 1)

opinions expressed. After all if you (as the
‘New Statesman' puts it) ﬁnd yourself in
constant agreement, the next issue will only

be a bore.
It should have been obvious to any one
that Camprzstz'mes would have been an impossibility without Dr. Nikolaus Klein. The
untiring zeal which he has shown in publish-

ing this chroiiicle is matched only by his
passion for making us learn Deutsch.
The Diocesan Press has been most helpful,

at times producing the galley straight from
the Manuscripts. We were lucky to have at our

disposal the elegance which is characteristic
of their printing.
As an introduction to our new readers and
puzzled old ones A.S.B. was Anand Singh
Bawa, Editor in chief (Nay, Editor at large!)
T.S.A. was T. S. Ananthu. Sa/za (our Cartoonist) was ofcourse C. V. Sahasranaman.

of the individual.

AUTO-SUGGESTION

In essence, then, we could in a less dogmatic

way assert that we could really be true
The commonplace lament of everyone
is that he lacks some quality or talent,
bereft of which he is in his present sad
state. Most of us feel that had we been
endowed with some more ‘intelligence’
one could have been much more happy.
This myopic‘view of a really complex ﬁeld
in human behaviour really springs from a

feeling of inferiority complex and repressions that it is difﬁcult to say “here one
ends and the other begins.

Such inhibitions

have their malevolent effect on individuals
to such an extent that not only is it a sourco

of annoyance to the individual but what is
much worse is nauseating to others around
him. Dubois spoke of ‘education of the
will and reason’ and recommended his
patients to ‘ pass a sponge over their past and
wipe out their puobias’.

them to right channels we must convince
ourselves that we are really capable of deter-

mined action. Vacillation and hesitation
should be summarily rejected as sob-stuft- not
that this means an advocacy of precipitated
hasty action—what it means is that we should
know what we are capable of and do it with
conviction.
Comparisons are odious and more so in
emotional problems. The sycophantic hero

worshipper raises his hero to transcendental
heights failing to realise that it is his inhibi—
tions—his feeling of impotency as regards his
capacities—ﬁnd a distorted outlet in seeking

to wreak vengeance on himself by seemingly,
paradoxically

enough,

attributing

qualities

which he feels he lacks. As Emerson wisely

reality and one’s capacity to face situations
is very sucressful in suppressing neurotic

remarks ‘ Every hero becomes a bone at last ’
is very true as if he only practises autosuggeslions—convinccs himself that he has
talents and utilises them efﬁciently—his folly

symptoms disarming in its

would be Only too obvious.

Persuasions and

pragmatic

appeal.

techniques of

convincing

Among

oneself of

directness and

the

various

psychotherapyone of

the

most powerful is persuasion and auto-sug—
gestion. As Coue, an eminent pSyCllOlOglst,
effected many mental and emotional upsets
by enforcing into his patient’s mind that

V. S. was V. Siddhartha. M. V. R. stood
for M. Vikram Rao. The other members of
the board were S. S. Randhawa and K. M.
Kripanarayanan. K. Mahesh will (we hope)

les jours,—a tous points de vue, je vais dc

continue to be staff photographer.

mieux et mieux ’-——day by day, in every way,

There isn’t much point in mentioning
outstanding articles of Volume I. You are

I am getting better and better.

sure to ﬁnd it in Campasiimes 25 years ago.
It will continue to bring to yOu like the New
York Times ‘all the news that's ﬁt to print.’

masters of our own emotions and to harness

they trill be all right.

In his words a patient

Thus we see that the panorama of psychotherapy has become progressively wider,
persuasion and auto-suggestion being yet one
of its many tcchniqucs. It would not be an

exaggeration to say that Hamlet’s woeful
lament :

should feel himself convincingly that ‘tous

‘ The time is out of joint; 0 cursed Spite,

Many of us,

indeed, are suffering from various complexes
and the ﬁrst way to overcome them is to
understand them well—~the primary cause and

the cumbrous circuitous path through which

has

That everI was born to get it right!’
become virtually a victory-cry for

psychotherapists.
V. RANGANATHAN.

