July l5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES

3

PERSONALITIES (9)

HUMANITIES AND US
On the evening of the 25th June,
Chanda of Durgapur, a member of the
view Committee, gave an excellent talk
Narmada Hostel quadrangle. The talk

Prof.
Interin the
was a

general one; short, but admirably lucid, it

held the attention of a normally unreceptive
audience.

It was spoken, as he put it, ‘ oﬂ‘

the cuff ’. He spoke generally on the usefulness of Humanities in ﬁelds Other than its own
and strongly supported its inception in tech-

nical colleges.

He agreed that this was the

age of the specialists, but, he pointed out,
dealing with ‘machines and mathematics’

alone, is taking a
Humanities

parochialistic attitude.

broadens

the mind, narrowed

down by science, and ‘sharpens the knife
edge of the brain ’.

‘

Democracy, he said, essentially consisted 'of
the mutual give and take of ideas, not speaking
of course from the political point of view.
He referred to D. H. Lawrence’s words

that man’s actions were governed by a mob,
and an individualistic tendency. He added
that the latter should be deveIOped. He
referred to George Orwell's ‘ 1984. ’ in which
there is stern regimentation under the ‘Big
Brother ’.

He reiterated the importance of Humanities
in engineering and said that in his opinion, the
staff with their preconceived notions were

more difﬁcult to convince than the students.
He spoke in this light vein for about twenty
DR. SCHEER

paints some weird ﬁgures on pottery and
wood carvings. He feels that children should

‘ K0mm, Pummel’, murmured a voice and

we breathed again. We had been to Dr.
Scheer’s room in the Turbo-Machinery wing
(it was the day of the all, important and all—
terrifying machine design examination) and
upon knocking on the open door, were confronted with a large white dog, which came
round the corner barking furiously. We all
knew that ‘ barking dogs don’t bite ’ but we
wondered whether the dog knew it I We
were luckily saved the opportunity of ﬁnding
out.
Dr. Scheer is the soul of geniality though
his cordiality is often hampered by his incomplete mastery over English, but yet, to

hear him Speak, one could scarcely conjecture
that he didn’t know a word of the language
before he came to India. As it is, lisping and

be encouraged to draw at a young age since
drawing is a medium of expression of a
child’s subconscious thoughts.

minutes and when he concluded, one felt that

it was over all too soon.
Prof. Krishnamurthy then thanked

the

speaker and said that to comment on the same
topic would be superflu0us and to improve,
impossible. Then in his inimitable style he

Dr. Scheer served in the German Air Force

calmly proceeded to comment 0n just the

during the war, gaining much of his technical
experience there. He was then in Brunswick

same topic. also adding that the Department
was restricted by lack of time. Gopalkrishnan

University until he was approached by Dr.

was, thankfully humorous.

Kraus. _ He then selected part of the equipment for the I. I. T. and was one of the ﬁrst
Germans to enter the Institute.

HC.N.S.

Dr. Scheer seems to have been impressed
very much by Indian culture. His drawing
room walls are adorned with paintings by
contemporary Indian artists, and pieces of
pottery and sculpture lie scattered all over

FROM THE PAGES OF
AN IDIOT’S DIARY
By V. SIDDHARTHA

the room. Even his curtains are made of
khadi. Another of his hobbies seems to be
gardening, since he can often be seen potter-

Dostoevsky—I have heard his name.

In

selves and One can say with absolute certainty
‘ This sketch is by Dr. Scheer ’ His passion

gardener’s dubious genius I
He makes his presence felt, and feared, on

fact, I was asked to read a few passages from
his books in atest. I couldn’t read properly.
I was crying while reading. I failed. They
now call me an idiot. Will they listen, if I
tell them that I was crying, not because of
self-pity that I could not read properly, but

for drawing does not, however, extend to

the campus roads, roaring past in his little

because those passages made me cry? .No—

painting very much, although we have it On
the Registrar‘s authority that he once painted

Volkswagen. It is, however, hoped, that the
rumour that the roads will be safe once more
is not true.

why should they listen ? They are wise.
They are logical. Is it not plainly illogical

stammering through One hour must be quite
an ordeal. His musical drone, aided and
abetted by a warm afternoon, is an insomniac’s
dream. His sketches are in a class by them-

a shark as a revenge for its nearly biting oil
his leg on the West Coast. He, however,

ing about in the garden ; thOugh he maintains
that he does gardening from the purely
utilitarian

aSpect

of

counteracting

the

M. V. Rao

that anyone should cry to the extent that his
senses should be blurred on reading a passage?
I cannot say whether it is illogical or not. I

materials. The grant will be paid out of U.S.

do not know what logic means.

Success is relative—

Government’s P.L. 480 funds in India.

I am an idiot, am I not ?

the more the success,

Dr. Pillai's research programme aims at the
intensive exploration of the availability of
refractory materials to meet the ever increasing
demands from higher temperatures needed for
propulsion of jet engines, space rockets and
nuclear reactors. Dr. Pillai said that conven-

the more the relatives.

IN THE NEWS

tional common metal and oxide-based refractories were now found inadequate to meetthese

Madras Professor Gets

demands. The location of sturdicr refractories,

GRANT FOR RESEARCH
IN METALLURGY

therefore, had become imperative to maintain
the progress in jet propulsion and the making

of space vehicles.
Dr. Pillai will proceed further with the

MADRAS, July 10.

studies already made in this ﬁeld by the
American scientists,

A new metallurgical research project which
may prove to be of great signiﬁcance in jet

propulsion and spacecraft construction will
soon be initiated in Madras thanks to an
American grant to a Madras scientist.
Dr. T. C. M. Pillai, assistant professor of

extractive metallurgy, Indian

Institute of

Technology, Madras, has received a three-year
grant of Rs. 103,000 from the National Bureau
of Standards (NBS), U.S. Department of
Commerce, for conducting research on high

temperature vapour pressure of refractory

J. L. Margrave.

Dr. L. Brewer and Dr.

He will begin with a study

How can I ?

Yesterday, I went to the Art Gallery.
Today, I stand in the Art Gallery. Tomorrow,
Iwill be in the Art Gallery. Composition,
structure, texture, ﬁbre and on and 011—1

listen.
me.

Big words.

They mean nothing to

How can they? I am an idiot.

I like

some pictures. I go because I like some pictures. I don’t like others. What right have
I, an idiot, to like or dislike a picture? I
dOn’t even know the simpler of the big
words.

Nobody has asked me that question,

because I do not and will not tell anybody
what I like and do not like. (Because.
Blasphemy. How can I, an idiot, use a word
of analysis P)
I came home early today. I always come
home when it gets dark.

An act of idiocy.

The NBS grant provides for all the necessary equipment, including pyrometers, ther-

The world of intellectuals (the peeple who use
the big words), they all go out when it gets
dark. They enjoy music and dance when it
is dark. I enjoy music too, but not in the
dark. I am an idiot and I like music also.
But they are not idiots. So! They go out in
the dark. Supreme logic. But I am not

mocouple potentiometers;

entitled to it—so they say.

of the vapour pressures and other related high
temperature properties of the comparatively
less understood sulphides, nitrides, carbides

and borides with high melting points, hardness and other valuable refractory pr0perties.

vacuum system,

gauges and induction furnace as well as other
items; research assistants and funds for travel.
(Continued on page 10)

There are many trees and ﬂowers in the
garden. Why are there so many trees and
(Continued on page 6)

