[July l5th. I963

CAMPASTIMES

MEN OF PRINCIPLE
By Louis William Norris

[This article is reproduced from the ﬁll}; ’62
issue of the American Review. It is a
particularly pertinent article. At a time when
courses are being shortened and more is being

fed into the students only to be discharged in
the examination, we are reminded that education is not that narrow ﬁeld of human activity
concerned with the accumulation of facts.
We do not believe that this article will change

the policies of either this Institute or the
Ministry of Education. But, if it is read,
understood, and considered as being a brilliant

contribution to the study of college curricula, it

church sanctuary, or line in a schoolboy’s
arithmetic to a passage in Tannhauser with a
legcrdcmain that bafﬂes even a psychiatrist.
A detective novel is perhaps the last word in

Depth of

cally untidy mental household of a student
only adds more confusion. Many a student

usual features of good novel writing, are at a
low premium. But if you miss the woman
who put the hunting knife in the upper right—

feels he has been given a large picture puzzle made up of so many little pieces that he

hand drawer of the desk, you have wasted

ture could be put together faster if the pieces

your time completely !
Experimentation, originality, and invention
belong to art, to be sure. But fragmentation
of the subject by a partial use of the medium
appears to be enough for many a wellrecognizcd artist.

were larger? Or better still, would not the
pieces ﬁt together more readily if the student

proclaimed that there has been ‘ an explosion

satisfaction that it has been a good class hour.
It has been ‘enriched’.
But note that

ation, holds an annual meeting, there are
dozens of panels, workshops, and addresses
designed to amaze all present with the
thought of what may happen next.
Behind the ecstasy inspired by these
achievements stands a spectre which it is time
to recognize. An explosion results in frag—
ments, and this may be the result of recent
developments of so-called knowledge. As
examples, take the implications for new
knowledge in psychoanalysis, quantum mecha—
nics, and cxistcntialism.
Many an eager
Ph.D. candidate has been working his claim
to new knowledge in each of these ﬁelds.

Psychoanalysis proceeds by elaborating on
the elements of consciousness, particularly
those below the threshold of attention. What
is the signiﬁcance of dreams, especially the
motives they contain? How shall images
that recur in consciousness be construed?

Do they ﬁt a pattern drawn from the father
or mother’s influence? What does the for—
gotten name of a familiar person mean?
Experience is read in terms of its fragments.
These particles are given a new context and

That time’s about a green valley.

character, inﬂuence of history, brilliance
of conversation, vividncsa of description, the

demand for attention to detail.

pedagogues have taken their cue from this
fashion for fragmentation. Visual aids have
been taken by some to be the magic drug
that will open the eyes of the blind and set
at liberty those who are captive to tradition.
By presenting pictures of rice growing in
Malaya, or Reuther talking to auto workers

of Science, or the National Education Associ—

to the car ?

Learning—why should I ?’
To add fragments of knowledge to the typi-

would have fulﬁlled its purpose. Louis William
Norris, president of Albion College. Albion,
M'iclugau, is the author of polarity, “ A
philosophy of Tensions airtorzg Values ” and
“the good new days”. He has contributed
several articles 59-" reviews to philosophical and
religious journals—Ed]
Fascinated perhaps by the importance of
things that explode, many educators. have
of knowledge ’ in this generation. When the
American Assoaiation for the Advancement

director. Music, not bad, but too short.
What a pretty girl l Where did I put the keys

Sad to observe, a goodly number of our

in Detroit, the teacher often glows with warm

pictures are but fragmentary glimpses of a
subject. What went before and after may be
more important than what aCtually appeared
in the picture. Interpretation of the picture
is far more important than what is in it.
Tesring, particularly in its so-called objective form, has became, to an alarming extent,

reliancr: on fragmentary reports by a student.
Presented with an incomplete sentence, or a
set of complete ones, some which are phOney,
at least in the orthodox view presented. by the
instructor thestudent chooses a word or a place
to make mark. How these tests came to

be known as ‘objectivc’ is a mystery, since
several alternatives and several words are
often true in some sense.

Most of us have been reared to believe that
pointing was bad manners, because it revealed
an impoverished vocabulary and made one
too conspicuous. Objective tests and visual
aids are no more than pointing to the fragments of experience, leaving their articulation
in verbal form untouched. It requires little

more intellectual activity than just barely
being awake. Until a student generates in

cannot sort them out.

Can it be that the pic-

were helped by a professor to ﬁnd the
principle for their organization? Students
are insecure, you say? It is more clear that
they suffer from chronic indigestion due to
their heterogeneous intellectual diet.
Can a college do better than help its students discuver the basic processes necessary
when they think ? “-‘llatcvcr education is, it
is at least cultivation of the power to think in
an orderly and con‘rprchcnsive way. Thinking
is continuous pursuit of a given theme to a
meaningful end. The mind is ‘a ﬁghter
for ends,’ as William James said. Random
thinking that does not stay on the subjeCt is
only dreaming. rl‘hinking provides, so to
speak, a string for the beads of experience.
Unstrung beads are easily lost.
Further, thinking is recognition of similarities among different phenomena, and differences in similar phenomena. This is the
appropriation of ideas in Plato’s language.
‘Courage’ applies to a mother yearning for a
child with infectious disease, a soldier defend—
ing a city, a statesman espousing an unpopular
cause before a council.

He who would learn

what ‘courage’ means will detect a common
idea among those differing circumstances.

Again, thinking is relating experiences to
more inclusive classes, the composition of
wholes that can be dealt with meaningfully.
Harry Over-street set out in The tllature
llliud that man is a Creature v. ho lives by and
through relationships. His mind matures as
he discovers relations to the tree of meaning.
To admire an anemone blooming in the woods
would be pleasant, but Overstreet’s language
‘immature’. But to locate the anemone is a
ﬂoral family, to learn the climate favourable
to the family, the soil where they are common,

the geological stages that have yielded the
soil, the geophysical conditions distinguishing

his mind the vividness of meaning a term
can possess, he remains an intellectual infant,

this earth from others, is to ‘know’ the

dependent on a picture show for his thought.
The ‘explosion of knowledge’ does not

anemone.
Historians have scorned Marie Antoinette

mic elements, has been showing that electrons,

mean, therefore, the multiplication of full-

for her naive question during the French

protons, and other units of force follow an
‘ indeterminate ’ course within the atom.

grown ideas. It has often meant the fragmen—
tation of attention to some new particle of
the same world man has confronted from the
beginning of time. The metaphysician is
often judged naive on the one hand, or
presumptuous on the other, if he ventures to

an elusive meaning is believed to be captured.

Quantum mechanics, dealing with subato-

When atomic ﬁssion occm‘s, these elements

scatter with violence in unpredictable ways.
They are believed by many to penetrate the
cells of reproduction in living organisms, so
that offspring three or four generations hence
may be affected. When physical nature is
reduced thus to its fragments, and when these

fragments are set free, a multiplication of
fragmentation takes place.
Existentialism,

in many

versions,

offers

Revolution :

‘Why are the people crying for

bread when they can buy such nice little

cakes for a cent?’

And scorned she should

be, for here was fragmentary knowledge unrelated by thinking of the hunger of the

people crying in the streets, or of the luxury

offer a judgment about the nature of the
universe from which its parts derive their
meaning. He generalizes too broadly, it is
said. But he who looks for the meaning of

of her own royal household.
Knowledge, is not an absolute, homogene—

life in its fragments is even more ignorant and

should not be the purpose of a college to

vain.

help its students catch up with knowledge.

ous good, of which there cannot be enough,
and any form of which is worthwhile. It

Karl Jasper-s, One of the best—known Ger-

Rather must the college help its students de—

man philosophers of today, points out that
‘the false is (the) scattered . . . . .’ To scatter

velop skill in sifting, ordering, classifying, and
evaluating what can be known. Jacques

lists seek a simple description of psychological
phenomena.
By accumulating more and
more information about man’s experience of

the attention of students to the increasing

himself,

so—called learning, is, therefore, to multiply

Barzun’s assertion that ‘a principle is the
only thing worth teaching’ a student may be
an exaggeration. But it points out that to
which everything else is prologue.
The

an analysis of the universe in terms of particles.
Fearful of premature commitment to a dreamy
idealism, or a brazen materialism, existentia-

nature, and

God,

it is somehow

fragments of knowledge, to open up a new

caurse to survey more and more branches of

expected that this mass of factual information

their confusion.

carries its own interpretation.
Impressed by this zeal for fragmentation,

drink of water would be as impertincnt as to

many cootemporary artists have considered
it stylish to present life in particles. Abstract

than he knows how to assimilate.
Education in its deeper reaches consists

painting may Show a series of sharply drawn
angles with no ﬁlled surfaces as the true
building, or swirling curves in many colours
as the real landscape when swept by an April
wind. And what shall we say of dissonance

in music?

Here a hot trumpet tries in

To offer a drowning man a

offer a student more fragments of knowledge
more in generating principles of organization
than in multiplication of frangntation.

This

is what depth in education at college should
mean.
Lcarning’s task is the more clear when the
haphazard, fitful, and untidy condition of

riotous desperation to prove it will have
nothing to do with the frenetic oboe, or
delirious drums.
The more unrelated the
notes, the farther out the tune!

our mental household is observed. Thinking
is usually messy, repetitious, vague, even
silly, yet illuminated by ﬂashes of insight

Stream—of—consciousness writing, such as
that of James JoyCe, has made the reading of

he thinks until he has thought it, or better,
written and mercilessly revised it. ”What may
I ask, do you think about an afternoon
concert? Do your thoughts go something
like this? ‘I'm getting sleepy. So he’s the

it a process in deciphering strange words,
and accOunting for unbelievable transitions.
A sentence may move from a hen house to a

here and there.

One doesn’t know what

educated man is a man of principle.

He has

pushed his way through the jungle of isolated
fact to the stream of principle that courses
from some headwater of meaning.
If the educated man or woman be a man
or woman of principle, scholarship must
have a new aim. These principles are not
to be memorized from a book or lecture.

They need rather to be won from selected fact
and the analysis of competing theories.

The

man of principle has forged for himself tools
to deal with such fragments of knowledge as

he needs, and develOpcd courage to ignore
what he may safely neglect.
Education to this end differs from and rewards more richly than the aims sought by
many in our time. First, education for
principle is more universal, less provincial,
than education for citizenship. Where the

schools and colleges have considered it their

