July l5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES

task to educate for citizenship, this has often
meant education for support of the regime in
power, the Nazis in Germany, segregationist

governors in the deep South. Contrarywise,
education for principle provides judgment for
the legitimacy of power, the efﬁcacy of political organization and the worthiness of its ends.
Principles of citizenships are more reliable
than the speciﬁc pattern of citizenship a
student so often is urged to adopt.
In the second place, education for principle
carries more objectivity than education for
adjustment and release of native interests.
Education for adjustment too often aSSumes the
uneducated child to be maladjusted. Education in this View is therapy, not cultivation of
the mind. Adjustment, futhermore, may be
dated and suited to local conditions, leaving

the student in permanent need of the therapy
a school can provide. Such gentle cultivation
of personality remains a weak substitute for
the rigorous training of the intellect, which
alone will solve the largest problems.

Again education for principle is more inclusive and thus more relevant to every man
than education for leadership. Education for
leadership is usually set forth by those who
believe history is made by great men, e.g.,
Carlyle, Emerson, Hitler, and who have not

read Tolstoy’s War and Peace.

Defeat of

Napoleon, and of Hitler in our time, before
Moscow, has been the action of masses in
Russia. The common man in Africa, Asia,

and Europe, and the working man all over
the world, is making history, claiming his

rights as he goes. Education for the followers as well as the leaders must provide them
with the principles that can order the conglomeration of fragments of their fumbling
minds.
In addition, education for principle is more
manoeuvrable, circumspect, and ultimately
more timely than education for a speciﬁc
vocation. Education in college that is explicitly vocational emphasizes speciﬁcs too soon

and too exclusively. In medaeval times a
youth was bound to a master at an early age
as an economic and social necessity. Since
we have largely escaped the necessity for such
early vocational choice, why shOuld the privileges of breadth in choice be given up?
To rush into the adult obligations of a profession before the principles are found that
undergird all professions and the society in
which each profession functions, invites an
early boredOm with the concrete problems
of occupational life.
While we know nothing of any schools of
engineering in Caesar’s time, we do know a
great deal about the schools of law and rhetoric. Yet without schools of engineering, roads
and aqueducts were built that would still be
in use if broader highways and pure water
were not available. These public facilities
were successfully built, though education was
not vocational, but largely cencerned with
matters of principle.

Scholarship at a liberal arts college should
have much to say of citizenship, adjustment,
leadership, vocation, but these are not its chief
aims. Its chief aim is to yield men and
Women of principle. The great books an
educated man should know were not written
for the specialist, but by a writer passionately
concerned to break through the minute particulars to the general principles. The true
scholar should know these books.

He shall

have depth in his learning because he has

A high 1.0. alone does not make a scholar,
though it permits one to become a scholar.
Studies on rec0rd show that the most
creative work in scholarship has not come
from those who possess the highest 1.0.9. It
has come rather from those of the soundest
character.

SUPPRESSED LOVE
by

It comes, in short, from those

with the greatest persistence, sense of duty,
and standard of integrity. This observation
does not counsel a return to the Socratic
doctrine that ‘virtue is knowledge’. It means
that rather virtue makes knowledge possible.
A man cannot be wise until he is at ﬁrst

moral. His possession of knowledge prosupposes that he has already mustered the
virtues of persistence, accceptance, of duty,

and integrity.
If learning in its profoundest reaches stems

SHAH BUKHT

‘ Well when are you coming over i" asked
the manly yet faint voice over the phone.
‘ I don’t know,’ replied his friend from the
other end, ‘I say. . . .’

‘ Yes,’ said the voice patiently.
‘ Please give my regards to Suzie.’
‘ O. K. But the last time I told her that, she

was delighted and insisted on knowing your
name. But I didn’t tell her.’
‘ Thanks a lot.’

from a man’s character, a college has prime

‘ Bye now. I have to visit someone special.’

duty to look to the character of its faculty,
as well as of its students. A professor who
loses, or has never owned, a passionate
persistence towards meaningful principle;

‘ Bye. You don’t have to tell me that you
are in a hurry. I can feel that from your
voice. Why, is she that important? ’
Michael Cooper hung up the receiver and

or who has lost, or never owned a duty, know

reﬂected afew seconds.

more and to aCCept the truth when he ﬁnds

ago he had gone to the phone booth with a
downcast heart but when he emerged he was
radiant and happy; the same happiness that

it; or who has lost, or never possessed, a

yearning for integrity among all the fragments
of knowledge, can make no claim to be a
scholar. It is the man of principle who
makes the profoundest teacher.
A student makes a good scholar also only
if he qualiﬁes in character. True qualiﬁcation for admission to college and retention
in college stems from persistence, the sense
of duty to pursue and accept truth, and from
facility in accomplishment of integrity.
Scholarship necessary for success in college
will follow from these virtues.
The church—related college, eager to turn
our men and women of character and intellect,
often seeks these ends as if they were separate

and

independent.

Rigid

regulations of

we ourselves experienCC when by

and faster.

came rushing into his mind and he wondered
how she would react to him, for though for
the past three months he had been sending
her his best wishes he had never actually
met her. Had he made a mistake in sending
her his regards? Momentarily he was confused, but it was soon dispelled as the car
came to st0p before the friend’s house. The
name plate at the door read ‘ Thomas Jener.’
He rang the bell and waited for it to be
answered. It was his friend who answered

are often taken as assurances of character

growth.
But such aids-to-character are
external and suggestive rather than deﬁnitive.
There is grandeur that pervades the man of
principle, because something greater stands
above him to order his life. He participates
in something noble and enduring. There
emerges something timeless amid his timely
pronouncements. The frustrated and despairing character of Benin Arthur Miller’s The
Death of a Salesman excites our pity because
he is a victim of himself. He had nothing
to give himself, so suicide was the only
answer.

Glendon Swarthout, in his novel

Where the Boys are, has a youthful character
speak for his generation: ‘We have pimples
but no suffering, money but no wealth. . .
delinquency but no evil, television but no
insight . . . . . . . 1.0.5 but no intellects.

We

have everything but the one thing without
which human beings cannot live .~ . . . . something for which to die slightly.’
This groping for something greater than

themselves is what drives the student to his
studies, and what will eventually save him
from himself. As the William Pitts and
Winston Churchills in England, the John
Quincy Adamses and Woodrow Wilsons in
America, have thrilled the world by their
political principles, so the true scholar may

thrill his generation by being a man of
intellect, and thereby a man necessarily
of moral principle. He will participate in the
grandeur of truths that are greater than
himself.

“ Educational Supplement ”
Saturday Day Inc.

A man or woman of principle has develop-

the

call.

The

a true scholar and not also a moral man at
the same time?
2

The Man
Worth while

‘Well now,

Goes dead wrong.

isn’t

this

that I don’t know how to dance.

Fritz

a sur-

No, no, I

am afraid I will not be able to go.’
Do you think most of the people that
come in there know how to dance properly?
It is not any ofﬁcial stuff. The pe0ple just
come to practise. Besides you have to begin
some time, and since the opportunity is here
you might as well take it,’ replied his friend
with a slight smile on his face.
Frank grew nervous. He felt that he would
never get off this mess. No, he did not have
to begin sometime, in fact he did not have to
His environment was such that

they did not require such ‘ nonsense ’ to help
them to get on in their business. He did
not want to begin a future that would only
last for a day. He was in a state of indecision.

is the man
who can smile
When everything

thought of Suzie

prisel Why didn’t you ring me up?’
‘Iam glad to see thatI have surprised
you Frank. You always think I am making
some excuses when I tell you that I am
unable to come. Ih0pe I am not upsetting
your Plans’ replied his friend as they were
seated in the room.
‘ On the contrary,’ replied Frank enthusiastically, ‘I was hoping that you would come
because ...... ’ he paused and a twinkle came
into his eyes and then he continued, ‘because there is a dancing lesson to-night.'
Frank was taken aback at what he had just
heard. A dancing lesson. That certainly
would be the last thing he would go to.
‘Don’t try to pull my leg sir. You know

begin at all.

obligated himself to seek truth and to accept it
when he ﬁnds it. This persistence in pursuit
of a valuable and the acceptance of obligation
are traits of character essential to scholarship.
Scholarship is also an evidence of integrity,
for latter means interrelation of all experience
to principles. Persistence, acceptance of duty
to know more, and integrity are the character
requirements of scholarship._ Can a man be

chance

everything turns to our advantage.
Back home he enquired from his brother
whether the car would be free the next day.
‘ Sure,’ his brother said, ‘ do you mind telling me where your friend lives.’
‘About fourteen miles outside Calcutta.
You see I would like very much to meet him
before he leaves for school.’
Under the starlit sky and the serene surroundings of a starlit countryside he drove
thinking of nothing in particular, but perhaps this was because too many thoughts
crowded in. But as he neared the row of
familiar houses his heart began to beat faster

for worship, and close personal supervision

ed guides for his thought, but they are at the
same time regulations of his actions. By
persisting in a course of thought towards a
meaningful end, the man of principle has

Justa few minutes

conduct, strict and extensive requirements

sewn together the fragments of knowledge by

underlying principles.

Beginning a new Serial

‘ Look Mike,’ said Frank, ‘ you will

really disappoint me if you don’t come.’
Michael thought for a few moments and
then ﬁnally consented to go. ‘ All right ’ he
said, ‘ I won’t disappoint you.’
‘That’s the spirit,’ replied his friend in a
cheerful voice, ‘besides don’t you want to
meet Suzie Fritz P’
(Continued on page to)

