[July I5th. I963

CAMPASTIMES

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR

FROM HERE AND
THERE

INSTITUTE GYMKl-IANA

SURJIT RANDHAVA

Poor Freshers! They don’t know what
they’re in for. Five years i All the depart-

Dear Sir,

ments in the Institute are going to try their

issue of Campastr'mes, I would like him ﬁrst

best to grind them into paste (And most of
them will succeed at that). Since the newcomers don’t know what a ﬁnal examination

to verify the facts before he makes any state-

is like, and I do, having taken four of them,

I think it’s my duty to tell them a few home
truths. On the average about ﬁfteen days

EDITORIAL

are given as preparation leave.
Once you
manage to collect the notes for the whole

Another year has rolled by. Rolling stones,
they say, gather no moss. But this one has
to the extent of 30 in the ﬁrst year, 26 in the
and, 20 in the 3rd and 2 in the 4th. The
failures have been unprecedented this year.
It was more or less tacitly assumed by the
optimistic School of thought that the emergency would make the ‘emergence ’ easier

from the whirlpool of the Annuals. A certain
high up is rumoured to have said that no
student unﬁt for the emergency would pass.
This is another facet to the problem, the

other being that failures are a waste of
Man Power (as Dr. Shrimali put it). Any
questions on this

bland reply:

score are met with the

Look at the University of

year’s work you get down to it and lift your

65%.

a semblaHCe of a prize in our capacity as
Editors of Campaslimes and the Institute
Magazine respectively.
Further I would like to know what quali-

ﬁcation Aan has to pose as an authoritative

the terrible Monday. It is advisable for the
sake of personal comfort to take a few minutes
off here and there for bathing and food. This,

critic.

however, varies from individual to individual.

Any ‘ mugging ’ that may have to be done
should be kept for the last night otherwise
One succeeds Only in making a delicious Irish
stew of all the subjects — which as any well
informed senior can tell you, does a person
no good.

The time for the paper to begin is heralded
by the famous siren. Again one should be
careful not to expose one’s ears to this
remarkably unrnusical sound unless absolutely

meetings held? It is not futile and vain deli-

berations which count but some positive
actions which matter.
And ﬁnally is the colour of Aan’s eyes
green ?
Yours etc.

SRINIVAS NAGESHWAR

Apart from tearing one’s nerves

be a selected few, the best of the 65% that

to shreds, it has a wonderful property of
making a person’s head devoid of most of
the important facts and ﬁgures that had been

have passed the Intermediate, and so should
industriously stacked up the night before.
be compared with those in a parallel position

such as Kharagpur.
Another major issue is the percentage for
In all the other I.I.Ts. it is 65%

and here we grimly hold on to our originality
and keep it 70%. To say that it is an incentive to work harder is a fallacy. Those

Two answer books are given for every paper
and if a candidate can manage to keep his
answers in the correct books — why, half
the battle is won! Other minor hurdles

VANAVANI PRIMARY SCHOOL

say the least, boisterous.

At Nagpur some

person who boarded our train made the fatal

Idiot. (Continued from page 3)
ﬂowers? I do not know. I do not want to know.
I am an idiot. But they are beautiful. All
the trees are green, but the flowers have many

colours— why P BlaSphemyl

How can I, an

idiot, ask such a question P The answer will
contain many big words. I do not like big

educationist as Father Murphy.
However, the school seems to be meant to

Others, who can’t aspire for these, heights, get

institutes in India should at least culminate

ing the running of the school to such an able

cater for the children of only the top few in
the I.I.T., as the fees charged are beyond the
means of many fathers in the Campus. Would
it not have been fairer to the poor sections of
the staff if a school suited to their pockets
had been provided first ? After all the ﬁnan—
cially better-off sections will manage to send
their children to good schools in the city
without great difﬁculty.
I hope the Institute will take note of the
very real difficulties of the lower-paid staff
members and their consequent resentment
and find a suitable solution to this problem.
A Suggestion worth considering is the subsidising by the Institute of a large part of the
school fees of the poorer children on the basis
of paying capacity of the parents. Let not
‘VAMVANI’ for some be ‘VANARODAN’ for

that would in any case have tried their best.

in a “ class ” !

The speedy action of the I. I. T. authorities
in commissioning the excellent School building
on the eighth instant deserves praise from all
Campus residents. The Institute is also to
be congratulated for its foresight in entrust-

broken pencil points, can be easily combated
by a careful count-down procedure.
The last homeward train journey was to

policy, but as a student, one feels that the
pursuit of learning in one of the best

Sir,

like perspiration, lack of ink, erasers, and

who are capable of getting it, are the type

discouraged and try for a pass. Furthermore,
when you pass out they ask you whether you
got a Ist class and you certainly can’t answer
‘ No but 68"o (that too being possible only if
the authorities give you that information).
Perhaps there are justiﬁable reasons for this

I may point out that the Editorial

Board of the Magazine was, and is, inﬁnitely
more competent to judge articles (which
possibly Aan never even read before hastening
to put his comments in print !)
And since when, may I ask, was the worth
of committees measured by the number of

Its pass percentage is just

But the students here are supposed to

1st class.

ment. He has been writing on absolutely
erng premises and does not know in the
least what he is talking about. I would like
to point out that neither Bawa nor I received

eyes off your books only on the morning of

necessary.
such and such.

With reference to ‘ Aan’s ’ letter in the last

mistake of placing a few baskets of oranges
near the public address system console.
They were extremely fresh and tasty. The
average lITian is a master in the art of
dubbing. For the sake of easy identiﬁcation
a Sikh gentleman with an oddly shaped
turban was labelled ‘The Flying Saucer’.
Similarly, a rather unfriendly girl, whose
only other fault was a slightly excessive
poundage was referred to as ‘The Locomotive ’. Sid was missed badly on that trip.
For those of you who probably don’t know it,
he has an expert’s touch for borrowing comics
from hesitant juvenile fellow passengers.
I spent the greater part of my summer
vacations in Kashmir. Apart from the
hazardous car-drive it was really enjoyable.
This beautiful part of our country is a valley
eighty miles long and surrounded on all
four sides by snow-topped mountains. The
valley itself is dotted with numerous

others.

Yours faithfully,
T. RAMACHANDRAN.

July 10, 1963.

skates/ wooden clod-hoppers, are all. that are
required to
having had

complete the picture. After
one year of instruction in

turbo-machinery, some of us with

superior

picturesque lakes and cries-crossed by numer-

smiles on our faces and a faint sparkle of

words. Iuse them only when I am sad. I
use them only when I feel that the world
will go to pieces. I hear many big words

ous rivers and well stocked trout streams.

knowledge in our eyes, made a th0r0ugh tOp
to bottom inspection of these aggressive
looking wind-choppers. Dr. Scheer will be

these days.

on low throttle and with wing ﬂaps and
under-carriage down it really managed to

glad to know that we did not come across

make its presence felt.

any of the parts.

So the world is going to pieces.

The ﬂowers, the colours are so lovely. The
smells are so good, and the sun is so nice and
warm.

Does the sun know Iam an idiot?

Maybe he does, that is why I feel hot sometimes. The others, they do not feel hot.
They think hot.

A few days ago, the ﬁrst Air-India Boeing
llew low over our Institute.

With engines

For the

sake

of

technical information I may point out that
its four engines develop a tcital take-off
thrust of 68,000 1133.; it has a maximum

any doubts about the working principle of
Idea of the Month: How about using a
battery of the above-mentioned wind mills
for pumping water into our hostel tanks ?

cruising speed of 590 miles per hour; a range
of 5000 miles, a capacity of 140 to 162, a

My English is so bad.
good.

Dostoevsky is so

He was Russian, Iam told. He wrote

about an idiot. I have not read his book. I
know already what is in this book. After all,
it is all about me.
She is so warm and gentle.

I run to her

crew of eleven, and an hourly fuel consumption of 2,100 gallons of kerosene. It is 153
feet long from its nose to tail (which incidentally stands 42 feet above the ground F.
about as high as a four-storey building).

Fully loaded, the plane weighs 311,000 lbs.
This plane’s hourly consumption of fuel

every evening before it gets dark. (Idiot!
Idiot 1) She is not very young. She is very

would be sufﬁcient

beautiful. Ilike her very much. She bugs
me, kisses me and caresses me. She runs her

approximately two and a half times around
the earth ! l
The ﬁrst impression one gets upon looking
at the two new wind-turbines installed in
our Institute is that of Holland. A few
tulip ﬁelds, a couple of frozen canals, a

ﬁngers through my hair. She says I am
goodvlooking. It is only the inside that is so
rotten. At night, I sleep next to her. She
sings to me. She likes me very much. Does
she know I am an idiot ? She must. She is
my mother.

KLM bill—board or two, and of course some

Dutch

I.

Dr. D.

V. Reddy of the

Applied

Mechanics Department will be leaving shortly
for the University of Illinois

USA, as ,Asst.

Professor. He will be conducting research in
certain aspects of Structural Engineering.
2. Mr. Johnson Victor of the Civil

to send a Volkswagen

scooting over a distance of 62,000 miles, i.e.

ﬂaxen-haired

BON VOYAGE

girls

wearing

ice-

Engineering Department will be departing for
the University of Texas by the end of this
month. He is on leave for higher studies and
Research Training in Structural Engineering.
3. Dr. Satyanarayan Rao will be joining
the University of Berkeley, California, for

research in the ﬁeld of Chemical Engineering.
We wish them all luck and success in their
respective ﬁelds.
--C.N.S.

