July l5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES
With the fame of our Institute spreading

in a nationwide avalanche and the two Is and
one T causing a happy smile of recognition
almost. everywhere—«the puzzled brow and
embubbled question mark cartoon style to be
met only in such remote rural areas as Vela—
chery—gone are the times when bewildered

postmen distributed Institute mail equally
among the other colleges of Madras.

Today,

aletter addressed to XYZ, I.I."l’. P.O., M-36
will reach its destination without delay (this

0F 74

750

Cauvery

ceased.

and

Krishna

are

They are not, as

about,

have

rumoured, cow-

sheds or monorail termini but cycle stands,
and the bent metal projections are not hitching posts.
To ‘sell’ the idea to the
students, all amenities are being provided.
A pukkah fence is coming up to close the

open side and ramps are being built to
facilitate the process of bringing and taking
away cycles to and from the stand.

We have

enough noise in the hostels already.

We

don’t want people ramping about, do we?

An archaeological society recently formed
in the two senior hostels claim to ancestry

from the times of R. L. Stevenson and Long
John Silver.

Admission is restricted to the

COMES SHE - -!
‘THUDA, THUDA. . . !’
Just listen to the thundering. Oh, how
dreadful it is! The clouds have donetheir
work. It is damn dark now. Is it day or
night P Of course, it is day. I hope so. No
one can expect a day to be so dark. ‘Oh,

has been tested l), and even the weirdest and

hell !’ see the people rushing by pushing

most morbid imagination will no longer be
able to lead P&T off the track. Those
Calcutta, book—sellers who slyly addressed an
order list to ‘ Indian Institute of Technology,

each other for shelter.

c/o A. C. College of Technology, Guindy,
All speculations as to what the pseudo
to roof asbestos contraptions being built in

‘ AND, THERE. . .

Mysore State ’ will have to swallow the bitter

pill that their practical joke has miserably
back—ﬁred. The .book list reached the addressee within ﬁve days.
Who would have expected that Our Auction
Notice published in Campasn‘mes No. 2
(September 1962) would eventually meet with
some response, late though? After all, it’s
never too late, the dump at B. S. Black
apparently having become a permanent feature. However, what ambled into Diocesan
Press the other day revealing such keen if

belated interest in old crates, was by no means
aprospective buyer but the Law in the shape
and size of a Police Inspector. Not that the
Law turned out to be a regular subscriber to
Campastfmcs. It didn't even know of its
existence, as soon became obvious. All it

It has started raining.

It is raining cats and dogs. No noise except
that of the rain is heard. Oh !— - See there.
No. You can’t see. Our eyes are closed—
terriﬁc lightning indeed. Wait for the thunder
now. Yes, ‘ Thuda, Thuda ’. Has my heart
stopped working? No. Then. . . so dreadful
it is. But the rain is going on doing her

work'without caring for anybody.
I hepe the schools and colleges will be
over by this time and it is time for the rain
also to stop. Then why is she late ? The time
seems to hang heavily on my hands now.
It is just drizzling. People are stepping out.
The school boys seem to enjoy the rain very
much. Oh! see there, the ‘ college dames ’
with books in one hand, umbrella being on the
other, stepping slowly tmvards their houses.
What about her ! It is ten minutes past
ﬁve now. I can’t wait. No, no, I have to.
wait. I should wait. Yes. Now, see there.
She comes, I hope, Iwish, and she is coming
there actually, swinging the umbrella in her

fourth and ﬁnal year students. However, un—
officially, certain staff members are also

knew was that ‘ some publication ’ printed at

enrolled.

digging (into old records, for instance) are

and that auction sale had not been legalized
by the Government! One can’t but admire

left hand. What a Sweet smile it is? Oh!
she is trying to be faster.' Her dresses and
all are wet. My eyes are ﬁxed. I began to

It seems (according to one news-

this neat piece of detective work, especially

breath.

preferred.

paper headline) that ‘ Rs. 6 lakhs lies buried
deep in the B. S. (alias C. L.) block ’. Dig

when considering the surprisingly short time
it took to collect all this extremely accurate
information.
Some people think they can afford not to
take us seriously. We may have to disappoint

Those who have had experience in

that, man!
A Yank who visited the Institute a little

while ago,

felt that the I. I. T. ‘School’

Diocesan Press had advertised an auction sale,

‘ What happened to her?’

She slipped down there in the road.

God! I ran to her.

Oh,

With an arm twisting

her, and with the help of a young lady from
the next house I managed to get her home.

‘ Mummy ! Mummy I I ’ HI cried ‘ What

wouldn’t be completed on ‘skedule’. He
was wrong. It’s there, all nice and shiny.

them one day. On the other hand, it also
doesn’t pay to take us too seriously, because
we may be the ones who laugh last and,

happened.’ ‘ Oh, don’t worry, you, just a
rainy fait ’——-She replied. And I can never

Designed by a Brazilian architect, the
counterbalanced main door is supposed to

therefore, best.

forget such a rainy day.
Gonna. RAMACHANDRA.

D. J. N.

swing upwards like a trap (mind your
heads, folksl). Father Murphy is managing

principal. Some of the staff members are
moving over as teachers. Better pay is the
_

reason given.

his Vesgnaﬁbn (:15; edit)? of (dmpasfzrnes.

The Three Years B. Tech. Course for
graduates is to be ‘ equivalent’ to but not
‘identical’ with the Five Years B. .Tech.
Course. One group knows a lot more about
nothing and the other nothing about a lot
more. Both statements
but not ‘ identical’.

are ‘ equivalent’

‘ I would like to quote from a technical
book written by a so-called ‘standard’
Indian author. But the flap says that ‘ this
book or part thereof may not be repro~
duced without the

permission of the pub—

lishers ’. No wonder !
It seems the M.E.S. promised Only raw
materials to generate power for feeding the
Campus. In our case it happens to be the
wind.

Mr-ﬂnonc/ 5/096 Boa/c7 2/703 announced

The windmill erected near the B. S.

Block isa prototype machine. No doubt de—
signed by the National Aeronautical Labs
(with foreign collaboration) for the explicit
purpose of providing the right amount of
power for the Institute siren, there is more
to it than meets the eye. It will be noticed

that the building blocks oﬁ the wind in one
direction. C.S.I.R. has apparently just heard
of diodes. It is ofﬁcially called ‘ Spasmodic
Electrical Noiseless Generator Utilising Pulsed
Thermal Operators ’
The Fifth Year Mechanicals are rather

annoyed that statements to the effect that the
fans are switched off when the

Director

lectures en airconditioning and refrigeration,
should be attributed to them.

Finally, I feel like the captain of a training ship who overshot his time limit for the
evening lecture. Along came a dutiful steward
and said something like ‘ Aye aye Sir, your cup
of tea is getting cold.’ I quit.
—V.S.

'nl.‘

