[July l5th. I963

CAMPASTIMES
IT distinguished ITself recently by receiving guests from outer space. It was
7.30 I.I.T.S.T. when the whole hostel

GUESS WHAT—-—3
If you happen to Be at Elliot’s next Sunday

and see a strange creature darting up and
down with the waves like Daffy Duck, you
can be sure of IT. If you hear strange noises
like ‘ Wow-ee-oh ! Vath ! Vath !’ uttered
in the weirdest of accents, you need entertain

no further doubts as to the owner’s identity.
Tennis is IT’s grand passion among
games. Red basketball shorts (borrowed, of
course) and an undersize ‘ tee—shirt ’ is invari—
ably the outﬁt. This, we believe, is the true

Bangalore fashion.

Talking of fashion, IT

is setting up the latest modes in ITS Hostel—
white jeans stitched with green thread worn

with brown slipons and a green shirt with
black and yellow checks is strongly recommended. (Model can be seen on display at
times in Room 106, Krishna Hostel.)
.
The auctioneer of Krishna Hostel relates the

following episode: A year old (empty) Resogolla tin was the precious objet d’art, and IT
was very keen on acquiring this very attractive
piece of art imported all the way from Das’s
at Calcutta. The bidding started at 2 nP.
and IT had the ecurage to raise it to 8 HP.
Imagine IT’S plight when Pixie bought the
tin for Io nP. ‘But this is unfair l I swear

resounded

with

‘ Beep!

Beep!’

What’s

this P A huge blue tin can with windshields
here and there complete with head and tail

we

Soon,

after ITs parley with the visitors, it rose
again and vanished. We later learnt that

where even chicken disagree with me, it needs
but little further proof to convince me that

this was a secret rendezvous of the Big
Four.
Further investigations revealed a
concealed passage connecting the landing
strip and I’I‘s room on the ﬁrst ﬂoor.

further proof wasn’t a long way off either.
Packing up and leaving Bandipur, elephants,
roast chicken and all, I got as far as Mysore,

ITS brain works on ITS feet. Recently,
when sugar was ‘limited’, IT used to go

a hot bath, a cosy bed and—a bottle of beer. I
shall say that much: I had my misgivings

around with a small cylindrical container
(in which ﬁlms are usually packed) and ﬁlch
sugar from the mess, a teaspoon a day. An
tell you that IT pays the mess bill out of
the proceeds from the sale of accumulated

about this latter item. I was almost certain
it would fall in line with Bandipur’s chicken
and Start an argument. Still. Mind you, I
am not particularly inquisitive. There are
people who are much more talented in this
respect than I am. If talented is the met

stocks of this ﬁlched sugar.

jurte.

lights descended in front of the mess.

idea if ITS patience can be had when. we

As a mark of

I am booked for the stretcher. And that little

Cendemned perhaps?

But then if

respect to ITS inventive genius, we offer
anyone who can guess correctly the true
identity of IT the original aluminium container with which IT earned ITS pocket
money (autographed by IT on the sides l).
Clue: I.T.’s got a nickname which rhymes

something rouses my interest, I, like a dachshund, pick up the scent and follow it right

with ‘ put ’.

for trouble, Iknew it was only too eager to
start an argument : It was yellow. The
importinel‘l‘ce of this vile liquid ! I took the
challenge just for the sake of it, but I loathed

MY JAUNDICED EYE
BY D. J. NIRMAL

day, we feel, are one and the same at heart.
1T9 companion Sancho Paul, however, has

It wouldn’t agree with me, I knew, so

parted amiably.
Amiably or not, that did it. For I know
that much : When it comes to the point

there is no mug in the ‘ bogs ,’ IT protested.
‘ Chah! What luck!’ And so it happened that
Pixie, moved by compassion, gave the tin away.
The Don Quixote of yore and IT of to-

loving care (and at an exhorbitant rate) by the
chef of Ranger’s Lodge. We stared at one
another and ﬁnally decided it was no use.

up to the badgcr’s hole, because, well, I just

want to be absolutely sure. And I was never
surcr in my life. Afterwards. The moment
it stood there on the table, I knew I was in

it thoroughly.
That, as I said, was the ﬁnal proof.

desired no more.
It all began in the hills of Mysore.

Not

I

The rest was mileage and

a bunch of bananas.

Green ones, to be on

changed completely in mood, though not in

at one of its many attractive hill—stations to

looks. Fighting with windmills was quite
remarkable, but lighting the wrong end of a

which I am somewhat allergic. To any hillStation, for that matter, as I personally feel

nounced aversion to the eternal red ﬂoors

ﬁlter-tipped cigarette in'front of the Three
Aces is really an achievement.
IT is a seasoned actor-——on and off stage.
Those of you who are observant, would have
noticed a resemblance to Rajni Nimbhpani’s
pet in the last issue of Filmfare. Other extra—

that vacation should not only mean a change

our architects seem to be so deeply in love

of climate, but even more so of people. That,
however, invariably turns out to be a vain
hope when after not more than twenty-four
hours at one of those queens, princesses,
duchesses, and countesses of the hills one has

with, I haven’t the foggiest why. I ﬁnd
them an inﬁnite source of botheration because,

bumped into at least ten people one has the
pleasore of anyway meeting regularly during
the remaining eleven months of the year.

at all and they look blotchy, or I have them
treated and everything else leeks blotchy.

curricular activities are playing the harmonica,

(enrapturcd by Edmundo Ross) sings' like
Sammy Davis with a Sachmo touch and does

the twist (like P.L.K. doing the Bhangra 1).
If you ever go out on a dinner date with
IT, yoo‘ll notice something: After two
numbers from the jukebox and a plate of
chips (tomato sauce unlimited), one notices
the cornered-dog-look in ITS eyes—time

It was while roaming through Mysore
State from north to south visiting familiar
and unfamiliar places, not knowing what the

Or maybe IT stayed too

friends wanted to go over.

Naturally, they

never will (I tried once and still can feel it),

Inecessarily- have to walk on these ﬂoors

next hill, or would be at the end of a day’s

hip—pockets at all.

Including the dog. She used to be white.
She is pink now. Since I do not yet master
the art of levitation and in all probability

dancing around the carpets or

journey, experiencing, in short, that sweet
uncertainty and independence which being so

long in Australia (pouches made to order)? 1
Your picture of this creature will be in—
complete without an account of ITs benevolence and hospitality. December is usually
a gay time in B’lore, and a few of ITS

whichever way I treat them, they invariably
give me a-kickin the smallof my back. Metaphorically speaking. Either I don’t treat them

caring, but enjoying the suspense of what
would lie around the next bend, behind the

for the bill ! And man, you sure are baﬁlcd

(‘27) and peels off two grubby. notes ! Only
then you wonder why on earth tailors cut

,

I must confess that I have a fairly pro-

following day would have in store, not even

when IT reaches into ITS shirt front and
begins groping around. You’re the guest, so
you wait thinking may be IT’S got some

itch or something, when, 10 and behold! IT
pulls out a custom-made patent leather purse

the safe side.

reverently

removing my shoes, if Ican’t help stepping
on them. After all, such equipment is not
meant to spend half its existenCe at the drycleaner’s or to be kept rolled up like a mummy

exactly opposed to the treadmill routine of
everyday life and work, to my mind is the
very essence of vacation.
To be precise, it happened at Bandipur.
Ofcourse, doctors will disagree with me and

in some corner. ' '

claim it happened much earlier (follows a
learned discourse on incubation, primary and
secondary symptoms, the merits of a certain

lity to have at least one room painted in a
different colour. It helps to restore one’s
equilibrium when on the brink of St. Vitus’s
dance after a prolonged sojourn on those
ghastly red ﬂoors. I had one painted yellow.
I admit I had been a bit rash then, but how
could I possibly have foreseen that I would

patent medicine in particular and of medical
practitioners in general, and now I am really
ill), but then doctors will always disagree, won’t
they? (‘ YOung man, in my long professional

"As I'said, I have an aversion to those red

ﬂoors, and I think I have made my point
perfectly clear.

However, one more thing

has to be added: There is always the possibi-

expected to stay in 1T3 house. They broke

career . . .'

the news at breakfast one ﬁne merning . . .
the result? A ﬁt of depression for a whole
week I Not even Pancho coold cheer IT

ries, it happened at liandipur so far as Iarn

enter into a competition with it some day?
Anyway, this was the terminus of mileage

concerned, and, boy! am I concerned!

and bananas.

up. Alas l the mouth-organ was silent, melody
was absent, in short, ITs spirit was quite
dead. This caused not a little concern, and

hands were wrung in despair. but wait.

IT

I know.)

Whatever their theo-

There are people who may have the cheek
to maintain that I looked yellow even before.
It simply isn’t true. Just think of all the
trouble I went into to acquire that lovely
bronze tan which holiday resorts are in the

‘ Hey, fellas, I’m not go-

habit of advertising as one of their major

ing to B’lore for these holidays 1’ Vathl

contributions (mostly their only one) to the
well—being of their respected clientele—and
then call me yellow. The audacity! I resent it.
It all began at Bandipur. [hope I have
made mysolf sufﬁciently clear. At dinner, to

get a brainwave l

Vath ! all smiles and wow—ee-oh ! Came the

reply, ‘ So what! We’re going all the same.
Tell your people to expect us.’ ITS relief
was turned off short. IT was possessed
by the old fever once more, and this time

IT had to be told that the trip had to be
canoelled (cause attributed to the Emergency).

A kind and gentle heart had he
To comfort friends and foes.
The naked everyday he clad
When he put on his clothes.

These lines are very apt when we think of
Herr IT.
By way of physical exercise
With weights IT does perform.
30 lbs. made I'I‘ wise,

So IT still has a skinny arm.
Once again a reference.

be exact. The afternoon I had spent walking
about the forest all but crashing into an
elephant, an aged gentleman busy taking high
tea. If you could possibly call that busy.
Whosoevcr is fond of seeing

‘ action’ like

The doctor seemed slightly puzzled, fairly
vexed, visibly perturbed. Was I yellow?
Was the ﬂoor yellow? Did I reflect the

ﬂoor, or the floor me ?

Or were both of us

yellow? We were, in sweet harmony. I
didn’t tell the doctor. After all, the patient,

too, is entitled to a little fun.

But then

further investigation was conducted at the

window, and when the light ﬁltering through
the trees didn’t reveal anything novel, the

verdict was pronounced triumphantly, ‘ Jaundice !’ And driving the

jaundice l ’

point home, ‘ Yes,

And rubbing it in, ‘ Clearly

jaundice ! You see his eyes? All yellow! ’
The congregation nodded solemnly and awe-

struck.

VVho fathoms the inﬁnite depths of

Cricket fans, leaders of opposition parties, and
newly appointed managing directors, is here—

joy a doctor experiences when, at last, he has

with

primary and secondary symptoms . . . I didn’t

strongly

advised

against

watching

elephants. It will give him the creeps. The
only time an elephant really gets down to
action, it’s wiser to watch out and stop
watching it.

As I said, it began at dinner. Over a plate
of roast chicken, to be precise, prepared with

nailed down a poor
listen.

devil?

Incubation,

Iwas already ill, he couldn’t make

me iller. Iput on a yellow pyjama and resigned myself to the onslaught of sweet lime
and glucose.
And in my memories I Shall forever look

upon Bandipur with a jaundiced eye.

