July |5th. I963]

CAMPASTIMES

9
wanted to know all about the games we played
here and particularly about hockey. It is so
surprising that this excellent defender who

Sportfolio

won so much praise in Madras has not been
selected to represent our country in the
Tokyo Olympiad. He was of the opinion that
the Pakistanis were rather slow and was

quite cenﬁdent of our vic10ry over Pakistan
at the next opportunity. Unlike Laxman, he
started playing hockey in his home town in
Jullundur while in school. He represented

the Punjab Schools in ’55 and All-India
Schools in ’56. Hockey in the Punjab was
inﬂuenced and encouraged a great deal by
Mr. Ashwini Kumar.
Piara Singh joined the Navy in November
1956 and represented the Services in the

same year. He played in the National in
1960 and represented the Services in the
same year. He played in the National in
1960, and represented India for the ﬁrst
time at Ahmedabacl in ’62. He went to
Jakarta the same year to attend the Asian
Games. He felt that the Indian team
needed to combine better if they are to do
well in the future.

l|

FACE TO FACE

PMA Smart. |

SANKAR LAXMAN

l
Like all good things, India’s supremacy in l

world hockey came to an end in 1958 at the
-Asian meet in Tokyo. This defeat, apart
from being unexpected, was most unfortunate——a shock to most of us in India,

a

morale booster to those in Pakistan. We
were beaten again at Rome and more recently
in Jakarta.

What was our possession—as it

were for 26 years, had slipped from our
hands. Can we acquire it again and if so,
how is the question now under dispute? Is
it proper spirit—or is politics affecting the

game? Talent of course is available in
abundance. The recent.- Rangaswami Cop

l

custodian. I-Iis rise to prominence has been
meteoric and now he is almost indispensable
t, the goal. Laxman represented the Services

in ’55 and also India in the Olympics in
1956. ’57 found him touring Afghanistan as
a member of the Central Secretariat team.
Ever since, he has been devoting a great
deal of his time to hockey. In the European
tour of ’59, in the ’60 Olympics at Rome,
and in the Asian Games at Jakarta, India could

not possibly have done without him. He was
chosen to be the vice-captain of the Indian
team and led the ServiCes in the series of
matches beginning with the Rangaswami Cup.
Despite

all his work and responsibility

Shankar Laxman, now 32, has found the
time to attend several coaching camps. Old
stalwarts like Harbail Singh, Swami Jagannath,
Gurcharn Singh and Balbir (Sn) have all
appreciated his talents and held him in high
esteem. He felt that the Indian team as such

should have more practice—at least 5 to 6hours
a davbelore the major tournaments. When

That our

tactiCS require a drastic change, there is no
doubt. A robust game has to be resorted to
to overcome the Pakistanis. In more familiar

terms, our players have to develop a little of
the ‘ Basu-John-spirit’ in them. I do not
mean by this that the hockey ground should
be turned into a parking lot for ambulances,
but that apart from the wrist and the feet, a

little of the elbow and the shoulder could
be used to advantage.

Piara

Singh

and

Laxman oi the services seemed to have the
same opinion. Campasn‘mes interviewed
them in
the
St. George.

Army

Barracks

at

Fort

now and for the future.

C. N. S.

DOCTOR AT SCHOOL
On hearing that Dr. Reddy had been to
school during the vacation, our correspondents
rushed to investigate why he had been forced
to do such a thing. But they found to their
dismay that it was not as bad as it sounded!
Dr. Roddy. had only attended a summer

school on ‘Modern Developments in Engineering Structures’ held at Srinagar, as a repre—
sentative of our Institute. In an interesting
interview he gave us some idea of the session

at Srinagar, an account. of which is given
below.

Question :~—~What is a summer school and

not much time to practise because of the
emergency. ‘ The Railways are a very good
team’ he added. He praised the hockey

Answer :—aA summer school is essentially a
meeting of teachers and research workers to
exchange notes on a chosen ﬁeld of study

association here for conducting the tournament

during the summer season.

so well and for thee xcellent playing conditions.
,
One could not however have said much of

is to provide a forum for the presentation of

It was sparsely

Its main purpose

individual research contributions, reviews of

current work at home and abroad and discussions. The participants beneﬁt considerably
from the wide opportunities for the cross-

furnished, overcrowded and it seemed a pity

fertilization of ideas.

that such talented Sportsmen should have to
stay in such pla-s when on tour-playing.

Question :—At a time when ‘travel less’ is
the motto we cannot understand the reason

Laxman

for the school having been held in Srinagar

himself" pointed

out

that the

Pakistanis were encouraged with more facilities. It is hoped however that this tough
formidable ‘ goalie ’ will do exceedingly well
in the coming Olympcs.
Pram SINCE-I.
24 years young, the Sardar was in high

spirits when Laxman introduced me to him.
He was quite interested in the Institute and

and not in a more central place.

Could you

comment ?

Answer :—As a

principal

city

of

the

‘Snitzerland of the East’, Srinagar has its
charms for all of us. The Ministry of
Scientiﬁc Research and Cultural Affai's, which

arranges Summer Schools for Scientists and
Engineers, makes every effort to hold the sessions in places with salubrious climate and
tourist attractions. Most of the participants,
who are teachers at Universities and other
institutions, have to sacriﬁce a part of their
vacation and residence in a nice place is a bit
of a compensation. Also, many of us in the
academic world cannot aﬂ'ortl to travel to farofi places like Srinagar and are grateful to
the Ministry for giving us such an uppertunity, which is really an incentive for hard
and sustained work.

Question :—'l‘ell us frankly what prompted
you to go to Srinagar. Is it the idea of a

S. LAKMAN.

As a boy, Laxman was hardly interested
in hockey. His favourite games were football and volleyball. He played these with
great zeal and vigour in school at Mhow in

Madhya I’radesh.

to tell this time and will bring us luck for

what purpose does it serve ?

obliged to board and lodge.

matches which captivated large audiences in

we lost ﬁrst will not have the same story

asked the reasons for the Services defeat in
the Rangaswami Cup, he said that they had

the barracks where the Services team was

Madras bears witness to the fact.

After the Navy and hockey, Piara likes
Basketball best. It may be mentioned that
he represented the Punjab Schools in Basketball in 1955. Let us hope that Tokyo where

He joined the army in

1947 and was posted to the 5th Maratha
Regiment of the Eastern Command, in 1953.
It was only then that he started playing
hockey. Even then he said that he had a

healthy fear of the hockey hall and it was
only by accident that he became the Services’

cheap holiday or the pursuit of learning?
Anrrcer :—Well both I
Your question

sounds intentionally provocative. However, I
can assure you that the end results were
promising.
The atmosphere of the summer school was
so conducive to learning that it had the same
effect as that of the Village Preacher in

Oliver Goldsmith’s ‘Deserted Village’—
‘Fools who came to scoﬁ' remained to pray.’
(Continued on page to)

