Birth Daze
By
S. SRIKANT

" One should never trust a woman who tells her real age;
a woman who would tell that, would tell one any thing ".-Oscar~Wilde
SITTING cosily on the easiest chair, as you scan through a pictorial cine magazine,
the news of the celebration of the birth anniversary of some favourite film star (of course,
feminine) of the silver screen, whom certain mad young men are after today, catches your
weary anxious eyes and they naturally project on the bewitching seminude photographs
across the page and stare and stare-and your mind begins to question if the cine women
dress like a bad photograph-overdeveloped and overexposed? But, do you see which birth
day they are celebrating-whether it is their silver jubilee year, or golden or· diamond?
Never, never do they disclose to the public the secret of their age and this is perhaps the
secret behind the success of their career! And the innumerable readers and fans, guided by
the adage not to ask a woman her age, are too gentlemanly to know the age secrets of an
up-and-coming glamour (clamour?) girl. To one or two inquisitive questioners, the
Question Box invariably gives the answer thus; "Young enough to continue to act as a
heroine". This non~declaration or incorrect declaration (if at all declared) of their age is
second nature to a11 women and not to the cine women alone. It is because, as an English
writer observed, age 'pulls down their pride.' They must, however, remember, in the
words of Thomas Dekker, that" age is like love; it cannot be hid".
While calculating age, it is said, women employ the count-down method, because
they are young" only once". At least the age-conscious girls do not age-they reach a
certain age and the years roll by for them, thereafter, in the reverse gear. A humorous
writer wrote not long ago that there are seven ages of a woman and they are: baby, infant.
junior miss, young woman, young woman, young woman and young woman. In fact, it
baffles one's comprehension as to why no girl is quite accurate about her ~ge-it looks so
calculating; "A girl who tells her age is either too young to lose or too old to gain". The
spurt in the cosmetics market, the surging sale of the make.up materials, hair-dyes, rejuvenating tonics, girth-control devices, tranquillizers and other sophisticated ensemble flooding
the shops are all on account of the go-gay girls of the day.
Why do they frequent the fashion promenades but for the inherent craving of these women to be looked over instead of
being overlooked? Despite all these odoriferous beauty extravaganzas, there are certain
girls to whom the only thing that can ever make them good is distance!
Poets, essayists, novelists and litterateurs have always been unanimous in their pronouncements while speaking of a woman's age. "Oh, Sir, I must not tell you my age; they say
woman and music should never be dated "-so said Oliver Goldsmith. Charles Dickens said
that a woman would ever aim and madly desire to be a youth though she shot beyond it

