2
years ago. It was Rudyard Kipling who averred that youth has been such a habit of every
woman that she cannot part with it. His contemporary Oscar Wilde believed that thirty five
is a very attractive age for women and said that London society is full of women who have,
of their own free choice, remained thirty five for years. The American poet, Robert Frost,
confirmed this statement by saying that time and tide wait for no man, but time always
stands still for a woman of thirty. Robert Louis Stevenson exclaimed that there is nothin~
more certain than that ego and youth are right, except, perhaps, that both are wrong.
Anothor American dramatist and wit, Wilson Mizner, warned: "When a woman tells you
her age, it is all right to look surprised, but don't scowl". Pope might not be correct when
he opined: . 'For never was it given to mortal man to lie so boldly as women can "-it might
be true as far as the pronouncement of their age is concerned. Byron was certainly wrong
when he suggested: "Believe a woman or an epitaph or any other thing that's false "; may
be, he was right if his statement refers to their age alone. "A woman is never too old to
yearn ", observed Addison Mizner, an American architect. W. S. Gilbert, the English play..
wright, said: "A woman may very well pass for forty three in the dusk with a light behind
her ". "Ed" Howe, the American journalist, quotes a wife who was ten years older than
her husband calling him" father". He sugges ts a cue to know a woman's age and that is
to ask her sister-in-law. Will she leak it out, out of jealousy or enmity-it is for the
sisters-in law to answer. One other author concludes that a woman, who does not age beyond
the 'optimum age', subtracts from her age and the years she lost are added to the ages of
her sisters-in-law! "Men may come ar'Jd men may go, I remain young for ever "-so the
womenfolk go on saying. Women do not, naturally, agree to that old saying that age and
wisdom go together and would rather prefer to remain young and unwise. Bernard Shaw
suggested a novel method to extract information from persons who remain taciturn and it is
to contradict them: So, if you over-estimate a woman's age, she may come down to correct
you!
The consciousness or the awareness in women of their age may be profusely il1ustrated,
some of the illustrattons being by the PEN (Poets, Essayists and Novelists) themselves.
In a shindy in a shandy certain women were sued for public nuisance and brought
before the court. The Magistrate could not hear them properly as there was a penmell
owing to their sim uJtaneous howling. The Magistrate ordered: "One at a time please.
Let the oldest speak first ". Hushed silence prevailed in the court hall as none came forward to declare she was the oldest.
In another case, where a typist (woman of course) was approached for typing certain
urgent communication, she exclamied, showing her pointer around her male colleagues in the
same hall, "why don't you approach them?". When the official replied that they were
, engaged', the woman-typis t suddenly burst out: "as if I am of old age" _ Wit apart,
surely she did not want to be dubbed as one too old to be approached (or encroached
upon ?).
There is a case where the girl was eighteen and her husband thirty when they first met.
Now when the husband is sixty, she figures that since he is twice as old as he was when they
first met, she must be thi rty six now, Thus, as a woman is capable of juggling figures, she
will never become old!

