3

Oliver Sch reiner cites an example where a woman said she was twenty eigh t years old
when she came and that was twenty eight stIll and it was for speculation as to when she
would have another holiday! There is a story of a stupefied census taker who asked a housewife how old she was, and she said she could not remem ber whether she was fony two or
forty three and so said thirty five. Another woman who had a twin brother claimed that she
was practically identical with him, "except for one minor detail" in that he was forty nine
and she was thirty nine.
The case of a diplomat who was complimented upon because he always remembered
his wife's bir lhday, but never her age, may also be mentioned here. Where from the
compliments could have come, but from the 'comely matron' herself? In a ceremony where
the would-be groom was to see his bride-to-be, tRe former was astonished to hear his
would-be mother-in-law hastening to tell her age which he was least worried about. Did
the would-be mother-in-law want to impress on her prospective groom-to be that her
daughter was definitely younger than her?
In an interesting case, a husband pleaded with his wife to have birth days again and
again as he did not want to grow old alone. Instances are not wanting where women
celebrate the tenth anniversary of their thirtieth birth day. As one anonymous writer
remarked: .' Birth days are anniversaries on which a husband takes a day ofr and his wife
takes a year off".
" I have decided I would not be married till I'm twenty five", confided the co-ed.
"And I", said her elder sister, "have decided not to be twentyfive till I'm married".
It was that French political philosopher, Voltaire, who declared that a woman can
keep only one secret-the secret of her age. Policy decisions of the Government or its
budget secrets may leak out, but never the age secrets of women! At least in one instance, a
woman was forced by circumstances to divulge this secret. It was while she was on a safari,
when she was captured by a gluttonous cannibal who never ate anyone past forty five.

Commenting on the loyalty of a woman regarding her age, one author wrote: "She
is very loyal; years ago she reached an age she liked and she has stuck to it ". At another
time he observed that when it comes to telling her age, a woman is shy- "about ten years
shy". A witty writer cited the case of a lady who "finally" admitted that she was forty,
"but she did not say when". As one humorous writer aptly put it, if any girl were to
put the right number of candles on her birth day cake, it would not be a birth day party, but
a torch light procession! Another corrected it to say that there might be a fire hazard!
Or, there may be no candles at all, because, "sbe's in no mood to make light of her age".
We note in conclusion how calculative and calculating women are in the matter of
their age. Among the Jews, it is said, a birth day is no holiday, but it is the anniversary of
a death that a Jew remembers.
Age-conscious women should never forget that
age does not wither nor custom stale. "Age is not decay; it is the ripening, the swelling of
the fresh life within, that withers and bursts the husks" (George Macdonald). They forget
that "women are the most fascina ting between the ages of thirty five and forty after they
have won a few races and know how to pace themselves. Since few women ever pass forty,
maximum fascination can continue indefinitely". Let the women remember that the beau-

