4
dful women in the world today are those who are on the wrong side of thirty and the list
includes Her Majesty the Queen of England, Jaqueline Kennedy (now Mrs. Onassis), Elizabeth Taylor and Sophia Loren.
Dr. Samuel Johnson loudly admired the ladies. "I am very fond of the company of
ladies; I like their beauty, I like their delicacy, I like their vivacity and I like thei r silence",
he said. So does every male human being. What is it he does not like then-their aging or
their lying about it?

On Discipline
By
Dr. T.

GOPICHAND

The word 'discipline' raises a peculiar nausea, in some minds. For instance, the
disciplinejmposed by weilding the cane in high schools, the discipline of militaristic
hegemonies, the discipline to believe in proper etiquette and manners and in matters of
dress, behaviour and appearance, though still practised, have all fallen in to disrepute.
What I intend to discuss in this article is discipline of a different kind which IS badly needed
in our nation, to save it from many ills devouring its vitality.
We have become a free nation. We have had the misconception that when once
the British people leave India, the nation will find itself in heavenly existence. This belief
is slowly falling apart provoking many a man to think hard about what is wrong with us.
Watch individuals or groups in our society; they are not basically different from societies of
other human beings. Why is it that what we achieve is insignificant-at least not commensurate with our needs'? We are not able to provide the basic needs like food, shelter and
clothing to our multitudes. Our sterling reserves are gone, our foreign debt is increasing, and
the internal taxation levels are almost getting saturated; but our problems still glare at us.
We tried to ape foreign methods (be it American, Continental, Russian, Japaneese or
even Chinese origin) to seek solutions to our problems and we find that either the transplanted idea does not grow, or the mixed adaptations do not work. This is true almost in every
walk of life-democracy, education, industry, agriculture etc-almost without exceptions
Many explanations are given by political pundits, economic, social and other experts, which
are more consolatory in nature if given by those who like status quo, or of a destructive
nature, if given by those who want to put themselves on the bandwagon.

