s
If one thinks hard and looks around in an objective way, one can not miss the' basic
malai se. E\ eryone from the politician to common man, is more vocal about his rights than
duties. In our anguish to be outspoken, to elicit recognition and sympathy, there is undue
emphasis on rights rather than on:duties. No one cares to question himself, as whether he has
done any justice to the job he IS supposed to do, for which he is paid. Is it not criminal,
whatever may be tbe defects in ou r society, or even to be more specific, in one's
own boss, to neglect the work on hand? A clear-cut understanding of the fact, that a
disciplined way of behaviour on the part of the citizens is a pre-requisite for the progress
of the nation, is the need of the day.
Let me try to amplify the idea further. If an industrial worker feels that his capabilities are being overlooked for promotion, should it be a cause for shoddy work? Is it not
necessary to do the amount of work commensurate with the money he receives?
Suppose the students of a University have
relevance, is it not their first duty to work hard,
that they should only study and do nothing else.
limit to which they can indulge in spending time
things should come first.

got grievances. Whatever may be their
study and gather knowledge? I do not say
But all I am suggesting is that there is a
to press for their demands and that first

Consider the various white-collared workers in any office. How often does one
hear these days that matters are not properly attended to, unless somebody pushes the
paper~? How often does one hear complaints of an sorts against X or Y and how scarcely
does one encounter persons dedicated to work! Even in a noble profession like teaching
it is dis-heartening to meet groups of people discussing all kinds of things other than
academic matters.
It is needless to assert that what we need badly and urgently to survive as a nation is
to discipline ourselves and to realise here and now that no nation achieve-d glory without
sustained hard work, co-operation of many at the cost of placing country before se1f. In
short, a disciplined behaviour on the part of all citizens. Grievances a t every level would
be there, even if we, as a nation, achieve levels of production as in USA, but the duties of
work to ensure soundness in our activities should be given first preference.

Two prominent questions should be answered at this stage. First, what constitutes
disciplined behaviour? Second, how far should one sacrifice self interests? I shall try to be
brief to attain logical consistency. One knows in his heart of hearts what is one's duty
whether a person is educated or not. Only, a person ought to feel patriotic enough to avoid
doing what is harmful to the society. Regarding how far one should practise it, I want to
say that it depends upon the ability of a persoa to undergo privations of a material nature.
How many should try this, is a matter of speCUlation. But one should realise that a totalitarian state like China, with a population of about 700 million, was not able to progress with
an estimated party membership of 5 to 6 million. I feel that since only one percent of our
population has been educated at a great cost and if every educated person realises and behaves in a disciplined way, there will be a tremendous impact on the morale in our country.
The second lmportant question is, who is to bell the cat? Who should try to inculcate
this idea of discipline? Certainly our political system in its present state cannot do it. Even

