6
a party like the communist party is breakLng up into pIeces on attaining power. On the one
hand, the magnitude of tbe problem IS bIg and on the other hand, tbe politIcal system in the
country, which should rise to the occasion to develop leaders who can instill discipline in
tbose whom they are supposed to lead, is in a turmoil.
In a situation of this kind, I believe, teachers of an kinds should take up the task of
putting rna tters in their pro per perspecti ve. They alone are 10 a position to state facts in an
objective manner without fear or prejudice and they alone are in a position to talk to youth
who will inherit thi~ country and will eventually solve its problems. This will provoke the
poli ticians to do their duty, to keep theIr Ii yes and activities in order, and to raise leaders in
due course who practIse what they preach
To conclude this article [ would like to quote an article by Shri H V.R. Iyengar, "Some
reasons for failure" which appeared in indian Express dated 26th June 1969. This article
gives in an excellant manner the imp0rtance of disciplined behaviour in revival of Japan as a
nation.

Hail! The Critic
R.

KARTHIK

Quite often the critic is responsible for accelerated social progress. Man and his
social order frequently react to critics and irritants, even as the oyster responds to discomfort from a grain of sand by bringing into being the cherished pearl. Written communica ..
tions are no exception. It takes a mild critic to add spice and zest to routine communica.
tions. Repetitious reporting of events, devoid of humour, may result in mediocre results
At the same time, humour, introduced at the expense of a dissenting minority, may cause
irritation. Whether this irritation produces progress or merely a widening breach and
bruised feelings, depends on the attitudes of the irritator as weB as the irritated.
Built-in bias and ignorance of the facts can lead to destructive rather than construe ..
tive criticism. To be constructive, criticism should have a purpose. It should not be the
result of a thoughtless reac tion or emotional outburs t.

