8
Academically speaking, lIT Madras compares very favourably with liT Chicago.
Of course, here one is forced to work hard because of home work. The standard is not
a 11 that fantastic. My undergraduate studies a t lIT Madras have stood me in good stead.
The reason why I said everything waS different from what I had expected was becuase I was
told the teaching methods in this country were revoJutionary-no exams etc. This is just a
m)'th. In fact, for onets M. S. & Ph. D. there is a quaiifying exam and a comprehensive
exam -which is worse than the degre exam of our Universities or the Indian Engineering
Services Exams, because a good deal of proofs etc. must be known; moreover the system
is highly personalised-grades are a function of the lecturer and the other guys in the class,
and not dependent on absolute merit or worth.
I read somewhere of Dr. Ramachandran's remarks on lIT Chicago's laymg more
emphasis on research. This is very true. Because of the very close relation with industry
and the Government, lIT Chicago can get so much money. Moreover, in academic circles,
people are not so lax as in India. Here everyone is on a contract. Merely standing 1st at
the Engineering College, Tumkur, does not qualify one to teach. Till one keeps on doing
meaningful research, dynamically qualifying one's notes, one is not fit to teach. Moreover,
if one is not willing to take criticism, one is facing stagnation tantamount to academic ruin.
I remember the awe-filled reverence given to teachers; I remember a friend pointing out
to a lecturer that there was a mistake in Dally's 'Experimental Stress Analysis', and being
told, 'How can you think that Dal1y could make a mistake'? When I took the course under
Dr. Dally, he pointed out the same mistake and acknowledged it. Here, in the graduate
school, a teacher feels honoured if his students can ask him ques tions tha t can floor him or
keep him on his toes.
I think what plagues us in our country is the H chalta hai "attitude. This is because
of the strict control one has to exercise in one's social life. One is so subject to pressure in
social life in India that one tends to relax in one's professional life. The reverse is
true here. This might not be exactly true in all cases as pointed out earlier but is very true
in academic circles. The other thing here is the degree of utilisation of equipment. This I
have spoken of often, as old timers at I. I. T. M will remember. Things are meant to be
used-they are not show pieces to impress visitors. Our equipment was fantastic, but one
does not run a museum at I.I.T.M., does one? One thing that always worried me was the
pride we took in the largest non-productive workshops in Asia. That they are non-productive
J can vouch fo~ ~but should we not feel ashmed of this?
There are nlany I. I. Tians in the US and many more Indians. Some departments at
lITe are running only because of the Indians. The IITians from an elite group here.
The IlTM spirit is quite high, I must say, and it is a pleasure to come across one here.

