Views And Interviews
JOSHY PAUL, THE HERO OF CENTRAL SCHOOL STUDENTS

Not far away from the entrance gate to Central School, we can see a group of ladies
waiting for their children, and discussing perhaps about the latest movie in the City or the
multi-storied Rasi Silk Emporium or Karuppanna Silk House. In front of us is the office.
We search for familiar faces. The clerks are busy, too busy to look at us. To our left, one
Sanskrit pundit is surrounded by ten or twelve kids. It seems obvious from his gestures that
he is attempting a joke. On the black board is written 'Note Books are sold'. We
remember our boyhood days, those golden days. We are interrupted by the peon.
'Summa
Ponga', he encourages. We step into the Principal's room. Somebody is sitting before
him. One Miss is showing some papers and asking for his advice. The telephone rings and
amidst all this, he welcomes us. We look around. One almira is full of trophies and cups.
Gandhiji, Nehruji and Tagore on the walls look benevolent and saintly. The artists have
done a good job.
" Yes", he begins. Tall, slim and spectacled, he talks slowly.
repetition and he never hesitates to give his frank opinion.

Words now without

Many parents think that by admitting their children in I. I. T. Central School they can
easily get a seat in I. I. T. Ofcourse many of his students pass the entrance examination and
get seats but it is because of the training given in the school. What do the boys staying in
the hostel feel about the Campus '1 The students love it. In fact, many of his Delhi friends
prefer to admit their children here eventhough they have a Central School at Delhi.
Does he think that his students have many opportunities to move with I. I. Tians '1
There are not many. But his students go to O. A. T. every saturday night, -never miss Intercollegiate literary and entertainment competitions. They read regularly 'Campastimes' and
are so much inspired by it that they brought out recently a publication and sprang a surprise
on him.
He searches his table and takes out a volume with the title ' Ta vern Talk'. The boys
have the same types of jokes as we, 1. I. Tians, have and their caricatures are good.
Mr. N. Vaideeswaran, Principal of the Central School, feels happy that his students are good
in group discussion and debate. He agrees that the styles and manners of I. I. Tians attract
the younger minds.
We know that Joshy Paul is a hero among us. But it is pleasant to note that Joshy
is an idol too for these children. In fact, if you want anything to be done by these boys you
tell them that Joshy also does the same. If you want to prevent them doing something, you
simply say, " Joshy does not like this". It works like magic.
With the preface " Please don't misunderstand us '\ we want to clarify whether the
general impression, that the students of the Central Schools are introduced to Western thou..
ghts and culture and not to Indian culture, is correct. 'How can it be right 1', he wants to
know. Sanskrit and Hindi are compulsory and if one says that reading English means following Western culture, well nobody can help him.
2

