10
His students prefer O. Henry stories. They devour the books of Wodehouse.
What does he feel about 4.40 p.m. bus? He appreciates the d uty-eonscious driver and
the conductor. Even after taking nearly 100 children, they go to the Admn. Building and
pick up some more. The sky is the limit for accommodation.
A quick glance through our pocket note book convinces us that we have collected
enough material. We thank him and come out with a feeling of satisfaction •

*

*

*

*

•

*

Students Of Marriage
Two or three kids are playing. We enter the house and are announced. Mr. Henkel,
S. S. A. of the Physics Department, greets us with a pleasant smile. Strong, well built and
looking like a Hollywood star, he extends his hand to us. We explain the purpose of our
visit and give him last year's Pradeep. He turns the pages. Is the Alumni Directory
complete? Our answer is in the affirmative. Not content with this, he calculates the number
of Convocations held and counts the names in each column. There are fifty names in each
page and the total number of pages is twenty. 'You are right', he assures us and prepares
himself for the interview.
Fumbling for words, we ask him whether he likes the Campus. Certainly he likes it.
Does he have any difficulties? Not many, but may be one or two. For example, many
Germans in the Campus get ill after drinking water. We ask why. He is ready with an
explanation. In Germany, they are accustomed to a different type of bacetria in water.
Any comment on our restaurants? Oh~ That is another problem. If they visit our restaurants
it is almost certain that they will be sick for the next two or three days. He tells us a
funny story.
Recently a group of journalists from Germany visited 1. I. T. His friends wanted to
have a practical joke at the expense of the journalists. Instead of serving the guests German
food, his friends took them to a restaurant in the City. Knowing fully well the after-effects
and feeling confident tha t they themselves are immune, his friends ordered lunch for all.
Do you know what happened? Among those who fell ill afterwards, five were his friends
who played host.
Enjoying his story, he offers us drinks. Avoiding temptation, we prefer coffee.' The
servant-maid brings us coffee. Helping ourselves, we proceed with our questions. Does he
want to say anything about German quarters? He finds his house good and he is satisfied.
But the point is this: He wants to know more about India during his stay here. He knows
that if he stays at Mylapore or T' Nagar he will have more opportunities to observe the
habits and behaviour of Indian families. "I want to know", he says, "what my neighbour's
reactions are when I request him to stop playing records at midnight." We wish him a good
neighbour!

