11
His five .. year old son comes out and informs his daddy that he has a telephone call.
"Just a minute ", he tens us and attends to it.
Now we turn our attention to the education of German children ill the Campus. He
informs us that these kids easily learn Tamil, speak fluently in EngJish and know well Sanskrit
and Hmdi but lose touch with German. So, a school for them was started recently to teach
lessons tn German.
We remember an American Professor's statement that most of the girls in U. S. A.
attend colleges not because they are interested in studies but because they like to select their
husbands. Is this true Ln Germany also? Yes, he agrees. As a matter of fact, while a
student of Engineering is caned Stud-Ing and Stud-Phys means a student of Physics, a
girl student is always known as Stud-Heirat. Cursing ourselves for not attending regularly
the German classes held in Max Mueller Bhavan, we manage to look unperturbed. Guessing
our trouble, he tells us that Heirat means marriage. We enjoy the joke. He adds that
most of the girls marry before they finish their studies.
Again a telephone call and with an apologetic face he rises and takes the receiver. A
busy man indeed. After the conventional are-we-taking-much-of-your time-sir approach,
we try to focus our attention on a different direction. Can he compare Indian students with
German students? Well, it is difficult for many reasons. What most of the Indian students
read at the college level, German students finish at the high school level. A German student
is older when he comes to college. Is this an ayvantage? Yes, for he knows what to learn and
how to think.
We see one or two Volkswagen cars approaching bis house. Our watches tell us that
we have spent more time than scheduled. We thank him and come out.

*

*

*

*

*

1.1. T. Students Are Shy
With a Warren Beatty smile and Richard Burton accent, we meet the receptionist.
We are asked to be seated. Thirty yards away an old man, perhaps an outsider, stares at us.
Somebody wants to know the bus timings. We wait patiently to begin the interview. Seen
from our seats, the enquiry counter looks like a sales counter.
Why did she choose this job? Mrs. Roja Devi thinks for a few minutes. We put it in
a different way. The nurses say that in their profession they get pleasure when they see the
sick cured of illness. They are proud to tell the world that they work for the welfare of
human beings. Can she say anything like that? She can. You know, when you are a recep..
Honist, you are not merely doing your duty but are helping everyone. Added to this, is the
feeling that you have chances to speak to big wigs. That is why she likes her job very much.
Has she anything to say about I. I. T. students? She feels that I. I. T. students are
very shy. They hesitate to put enquiries to her. What is the impression of outsiders when

