12

they visit l. I. T.? They like the Campus very much. In fact, they go to the extent of saying
that there is no need for a receptionist for, once they enter I. 1. T. campus everything
becomes familiar and homely.
Does she remember any funny incidents? Oh! There are a good number of them.
Some time back, one foreigner came here and gave the names of some persons whom he
wanted to meet On enquiry, it turned out that this man mistook 1. I. T. for King's
Institute. Often she meets persons who think this is C. L. R. I.
On an average, she gets fifty telephone calls a day. If Symposia are held, she gets
more enquiries from visitors. She will have an assistant soon.
The queue waiting at the counter grows bigger and bigger. ImpatIent eyes convey the
message clearly, We know it is time for us to thank the good hearted and jovial receptionist.
We present her Pradeep and say goodbye.

On Career Planning
S.

RAMANI

Engineering students as well as engineering curricula, professors and even teaching
techniques are quite different today as compared to those of ten years ago. There is an increasing trend for engineering students to go in for post-graduate qualifications, particularly
in business administration. This could be due to decreasing job opportunities for fresh
engineering graduates, or due to the attractive stipend awarded to all post-graduate engineering scholars, or due to increased specialisation demanded by jobs or due to a combination
of the above factors. It is even rumoured that students of engineering look upon the post ..
graduate course as a mere postponement of the problem of having to find a good job.,
I n any case, an engineering graduate of today has to face the 1969 realities of employers' demands. Ability to analyse, synthesize and make decisions, are insisted upon by
potential employers as the ingredients of a successful young engineer. The problem here is
to define the word 'success '. In whichever way it is defined, the way the young engineer
applies analysis, synthesis and decision-making, while coming to conclusions about his
job. will forecast his on-the-job performance subsequently. And the greatest of these
abilities is ' decision-making'.

