13
Today, management specialists can claim that decision-making is more of a science
than an art-particularly, decision-making under risk and under uncertainty. The essence
of decision-making lies in generating the various alternatives and weighing the facts with a
view to reducing them to tangible terms.
Decisions which foresee only negative results and therefore try to maintain status-quo
do not contribute towards success. The decider should have a positive aim and refuse to
have bis visIOn clouded by aversion and temporary set-backs. The aim should be realistic.
For example, an oft-quoted aspiration of young engineers, ,. maximun income and maximum
job satisfaction", is just, meaningless. Maximun job satisfaction need not (and will not)
occur at maximum income. ]f one doubts this statement, one has just to oraw the two
curves and see for himself. In the words of a manager, one has to "optimise the
combination of income and satisfaction". Having decided to take up a job, young engineers have often complained that the jobs are dull and uninteresting. A sound decision in
such situations may be to change the j0b but not the employer (particularly in these days of
mass unemployment). One should try to mould the job to permit expression of one's
aptitudes. For example, there could be several approaches to handling a job, aU of them
with almost an equal degree of success. Atleast one of these approaches will require
maximum application of one's talents. This approach may well prove to be the. one that
makes dull jobs exciting! Rather than escape from troubles one has to seek satisfaction from
jobs.
One has to be a realist to make a success of a career. The materialists and the idea~
lists seldom make a sound approach to career planning. The realist accepts change as a
norm of professional life. In the variable environment, change is the only constant. The
man who can successfully manage change, can manage any job. After all, the twentieth
century concept of leadership is nothing but " the ability of an individual or a group to
manage change in a dynamic environment". Students of Engineering often find it difficult
to decide precisely the kind of career they want to pursue. Very few students seem to do
what they like to do instead of what they think will be required of them. This is partly
due to the fact that engineers leaving colleges do not have opportunities to learn enough about
the needs of the several jobs that come on their way. Nor are they aware of their own talents
and shortcomings. This results in improper matching of aptitutdes and job requirements
Careers selected in terms of acquired rather than natural talents, are seldom 'successful'.

