IS

Destination: Hostel Mandakini
If unlike us students, money isn't your problem, let the cab driver know tha t you are
to be driven right up to Mandakini Hostel exactly 2.103 miles from the IN gate.
)'

If money is your problem, or spendthrifts are your opposites, nothing like the 1.1. T.
bus. (Frequency: one every 20 minutes. Terminal points: Adayaru and Mandakini
Hostel.) The bus obviously passes through the gate. The drive takes 15 minutes and only
one of tbe six drivers employed is the Grand Prix type.

If you've forgotten your wallet a t home or do not wish to take even the 16. 67%
chance of risking the Grand Prix type, then we're afraid you'll have to w'alk, since you
wouldn't have a bicycle. However, passing motorists shall graciously consider your lift ...
thumbing-signals. Inconsiderate motorists are to be rebuked vehemently. (An IlTian
principle of the road).
If you travel light, and have a passion for plea~ant walks, we strongly recommend
your footing it to the hostel. On an average you will encounter 232 trees, 57 deer, 19 monkeys and many IlTians.
Caution: If you hear a far-away roar, treat it as an emergency and hit the road
side. A whizz should confirm the passing of the devil's motor bike; after all, boys will be
boys.

A Word of Warning To Those With Weak Hearts
German cars which roam the Campus in plenty are known for their stealthy approach
and suddenly blaring borns; many a victim has broken the walking high jump record.
The Hospital is open during your most healthy hours.
PRESUMING YOU'VE MADE IT TO THE HOSTEL: If you have any thing to say
about the rooms, (we're certain it can't be nice) just remember that we have to live in them
for five long years, without the option.
If you like attached bathrooms, pick the room at the end of the corridor. But then
don't complain abou t having not one but six bathrooms a ttaehed.
Messing Arrangements: If excellent food is amongst your cherished values, then the
mess is for your friends only. However, the first few meals can be thoroughly enjoyed by
having side bets as to what confronts you on the plate. If you can make out our sambar
from rasam, you've been talking with the cook. To offset minor disappointments, a spectrum of rice shall be served.
Telephone Facilities: (More truthfully, telephone difficulties). There are two telephones in your hostel office. (The hostel office is in the hostel). One, the RAX, is for
domestic calls; the other PABX, for cal1s both inside and outside the Institute. It is
customary not to deprive the exchange of overhearing your juicy conversation. So kindly
dial 9 on the PABX, and ask for the outside number. Since domestic calls are invariably
boring, you needn't bother the exchange. Simply dial the 3.digit number on the RAX.

