The Alumni Association
I NDIAN I NSTITUTE OF

TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS· 36

Annoal Report For The Year 1968-1969
Any careful reader of annual reports will arrive at the conclusion that the title best
suited is 'Annual Complaint'. Every year the annual report starts on a high note and ends
with bitter complaints. I hope this year there win be some change.
Actually there can never be any spectacular achievements, for, the aims of the Alumni
Associa tion are not stuff from which sensational news is made. If, suppose, we request that
IOCYo of the members of the Board of Governors of I.I.T. M. should be OUf alumni, this idea
may be considered as revolutionary by some, premature by a few and would be rejected
totally by many. To demand that the Alumni Associa tion should be consulted on every matter concerning the welfare of the students, will mean that we are ambitious. So we come to
face the reahty that the sphere of our activities is very limited. With justifiable pride, I am
glad to say that this year the Executive Committee and Editorial Committee did a wonderful
job. Everywhere we hear the cry th~t President's rule should be imposed. So far as the
Alumni Association is concerned, there is true team spirit and not President's rule. That,
perhaps!t explains why we were able to achieve so much within a short time.
This year we have had two Presidents and two Treasurers. Naturally, our activities
were also doubled. Prof. R. G. Narayanamurthy's dynamic personality, Prof. P. Venkata
Rao's ability to take quick decisions and act upon them and Dr. P. Srinivasa Rao's sincerity
combined together and the result was, we put Rs. 5000 in a fixed deposit scheme.

I am sure that our new Treasurer Dr. B. Ramaswamy in his turn will see that we
deposit more money in the coming years.
This year we conducted the membership campaign so remarkablY well that 350
students were enrolled as members, the highest number on record so far. I wish to express
my gratitude to all the Heads of Departments and the ~tudents for their cooperation.
We have done our best to help our alumni in all possible ways, ofcourse legal, on
receiving lette-rs from them.
There are many reasons for not bringing out the second issue of News Letter. Some of
them can be easily explained and others can't be because 1 do not know them!
As I am determined not to complain, I do not want to mention the fact that we are
not getting up-to-date information from most of our alumni.

I am grateful to the members of the Editorial Committee, especially to Prof. S.
Sampatb, for their help.

I will be failing in my duty if I do not place on record the services rendered by the
Executive Committee and I do not want to fail.

