17
It gives m<.' great pleasure to know that 1. I. Tians form the elite of the society when
they go to foreign Universities. From Canada and United States, we get letters informing
that J. I. Tians are preferred. The Alumni Association keeps in touch with foreign Universitie'l and the information we co1Ject is very useful to the students.

Before concluding, let me thank the President and the Office-bearers of the Association, the Staff and the students of this Institute and all the alumni who have helped a lot for
the rapid growth and prosperity of the Association.
" Let us not relax with a feeling of satisfaction and fulfilment but keep on moving".
M. R.
Dated: 1st August, 1969

SRJDHARAN

Secretary

Unemployed Engineers And Industrial Development
PROF.

S.

SAMPA TH

The demand for individuals who have high ability and are trained in various professions is now so familiar to us that we take it for granted but its emergence constitutes one of
the most profound changes in the stream of human affairs. Throughout the millennia of
history, it was given only to a few individuals in society to develop their gifts and contribute to the progress of society. The critical importance of human resources did not force
itself on public attention till recently when nations began to experience dramatic shortages
in strategic professions like teaching, medicine, science and engineering. According to
Bernard LovelJ, the rate of accumulation of knowledge is now 100 times faster than at the
turn of the century, scientific activities are doubHng every 10 years and there will be 2
million scientists at work by the end of this century_
In India, for centuries, the pursuit of knowledge was for its own sake and remained
unrelated to OUf social needs. The Indian renaissance in the latter half of the nineteenth
century, which caused a literary and cultural upsurge, brought to the fore a few leaders
of science around whom centres of excellence began to emerge. This, to some extent.
repudiated the view, popular in the West, that the oriental mind is essentially metaphysIcal
and unsympathetic to science and technology. After the dawn of independence, public
support began to materiaHze for the institutional growth of science and an era of substantial investment began with the adoption of the often-quoted Scientific Policy Resolution
of the Government of India of 1958.
Technical education remained static and undeveloped. An appreciation of the importance of scientific and technical personnel at various levels came as an aftermath of
World War II experiences. The Govt. of India established in 1946 an All-India Council
3

