19
educationists and scientists on the one hand and industrialists on the other and cautioned
that if this state of affairs is allowed to continue, the nat jon's progress would grind to a halt.
In his addre~s to the Indian Science Congress in January 1968, Dr. Atma Ram again spoke
of the hiatus that exists because, in oUr country, research and development are confined to
Government-sponsored institutions and the results'have to be utilized in the industrial sphere
and there lS a dIchotomy between research and productive utiJiza tion. He registered the
complaint that, Inspite of tax incentives and the C.S.I.R. offer to contribute to co-operative
research through the medium of Industrial research associations, industry had taken no
~ignificant steps 10 the matter of research.
Tnaugura tmg a Summer rnstitute on Laboratory Training and Instruction, in May
1966, Shri H.V.R. [engar drew attention to the importance of evolving schemes of ins truction 1 n which, apart from theory, first-hand practical experience, based on the use of laboratory tools and working models, would receive strong emphasis. He had no hesitation in
putting the blame for the failure of the present system on the teacher who taught theory but,
being himself the product of a by.gone, defective educational system, possessed little or no
practical sktll or industrial experience.

The teaching institutions are by and large unmindful of the pressing day-to-day
problems of our industrial organizations. Managers of industrial set-ups find -the fresh
recruits good-for-nothing on the shop-floor and have to devise programmes to train them
from elemental heginnings. The technical institutions adopt the all-too familiar defensive
attitude that their task is to provide basic training and it is up to the industrial establishments to organize the requisite on-the-job specialized training.
In technical universities in Germany, no student is allowed to embark on his study
programme unless he has put in a period of apprenticeship in industry. The project-work
that he does-an important component of bl& curricular programme-is invariably industry
-based and industry-supported. No one is considered fit to be assigned a ,teaching job in
a technical University unless he has a few years of meritorious work to his credit in an industria 1 es tahlishment.
Prof. Whitehead, the noted authority on education, said: "Education must impart
both techniq ue and intellectual vision. The purpose of education is to produce a pupil
with something that be knows well and something that he does wen". We, in this country,
have not been true to this dual aspect of education, at least in the field of technical education.
In 1947, when we attained independence, the expenditure on scientific research was of
the order of a crore of rupees. Today it is in the neighbourhood of 50 crores of rupees per
annum. 1t is paradoxical and sad that in a country, which provides challenging opportunities to educationists, scientists and industrialists, they should be at cross-purposes and
working in isolation and that the best of our talented men have to look elsewhere and plan
to go abroad for the betterment of their careers
As of 1954, the rate of production of engjneerin~ graduates in the U.S.S.R. was 260
per million of population and in the U.S.A. around 140. Our rate was 9 per million. :The
figures for the U.S.S.R. and U.S.A. have doubled by now. By 1961, our figure was 12 per
million. With an annual output 0f 20,000 graduates, our rate will still be about 40 per million. It is again paradoxical that, with so much yet to be achieved in our economic

