20
regeneration and with such little technical manpower at our disposal, there should be the
sadness of unemployment, want and frustration.
The Bhabha Committee Report of 1966-a blueprint for a decade of development in
Electronics-proposes that the production value of electronic equipment, which stood at a
figure of Rs. 26 crores in 1964, should be stepped up to annual figure of Rs. 305 crores by 1975,
at a sui table growth ra teo The Committee envisages an over-all investment of Rs. 170 crores, in
a ten-year period, to reach this target. The wage-bill, by 1975, would reach Rs. J 15 crores,'
involving the employment of a task-force of 330,000 of whom 250,000 will be skilled work ..
ers, technicians and engineers. The related components industry will require 40,000 persons
of whom 35,000 will be of the skilled category. For research and development work outside the manufacturing plants, an additional force of 15,000 scientists and 30,000 supporting
technical staff win he required. The total task-force of about 400,OOO-of whom 300,000
will be in the class of engineers, scientists and skilled workers-will be geared to an investment of Rs 170 crOTes. The investment per man will be approximately Rs 4000 to Rs. 5000,
as against Rs. 1,50,000 which is the corresponding figure for the Steel Industry wherein
a Jarge part of the manpower employed is unskilled. There is thus a tremendous scope for
the employment of skilled men and women in large numbers if the Electronics Industry is
properly nurtured and brought up.
We have a Scientific Policy Resolution. Some industrial policies have been outlined.
But there is no clear enunciation of the strategy of development
from the
technological point of view. Economic development presupposes capital technological
expertise, managerial skills and the will to work hard. Except for capital, the rest revolve
on human resources. To quote Whitehead again: "In the conditions of modern life, the
race which does not value trained intelligence is doomed".
Education is the tool with which we may build the system of skills and capabilities
that win cbange our physical resources into economic wealth. The task of training scientists,
engineers, technologis ts, craftsmen, managers and administrative personnel and a host of
professional and non-professional men of skills must go on with zeal and unabated vigour.
Fragmnnta ry solutions of the past should be replaced by a concerted attack on our national
problems. It is not want of understanding of the issues at stake that has hindered eur
progress but our lack of co-ordination at a day-to·day working 1evel, our chronic inability
to pool our national resources and our tendency to go it alone in whatever we undertake to
do either as individuals or in small groups.

It is within our hands, in the next decade or so, to convert our backwardness into
our major advantage. With willpower and vision, we may by-pass many of the early
phases of industrial advancement that advanced countries have gone through, and set up our
house on a new foundation of modern technology and progressive ideas. We, as a,nation,
have the intelltctual capacity for doing this. It is up to us to generate the req uisite manpower and press it into service, in the country's interests, in a disciplined manner and
with a sense of direction. We may then live to see the dreams of men like Jawahar)al
Nehru and Homi Bhabba come to fruition.

