News-Flash From The Departments
DEPARTMENT OF AERONAUTICS AND APPLIED MECHANICS
In addition to the conventional facilities for testing, such as testing machines, loading
frames. load cells and strain and deflection gauge instrumentation, tht're exist special items
such as a network analyser, a membrane analogy apparatus. photoelastic equipment, and a
column testing apparatus which have been deslgned and fabricated by the Staff. A Bi-axial
testing machine has been designed and is under fabrication.
The research projects under active investigation In this field are; Buckling of AnIsotropic pJates and shells (experimental and theory); VIbration of Anisotropic plates, shells
and structures; Development and lmplementation of general purpose computer programmes
for structural and eJastlc problems; Limit analysis of anisotropic plates and shells; Buckling
of shells of lamination under axial loading; Ultimate load analysis of steel and R C. model
slabs with cut outs; R.C. rings subjected to diametral loads~ Analysis of structures for
creep; Plastic behaviour of metals like steel and aluminium under certain condi lions; and
stress analysis of the junction of a cylindrical and conical shells.
As a result of generous West German Aid, it has been possible to i!lstall major items
of equipment in this laboratory such as (i) Open test section c1osed-ci rcui t low-speed wind
tunnel of nozzle diameter 1.5 m with an installed power of 180KW, a maximum flow
velocity of 60 m/second. equipped with a semi-automatic six-component balance: (ii) An
open circuit low speed wind~tunnel with cJosed test section of 0.6 m x 0.6 m; (iil) a diffuser
test stand with 75 KW installed power.
The current research activities in the field of Fluid Mechanics areExperimental investigation of incompressible 3 - dimensional turbulent boundary
Jayers on yawed flat plate; Experimental investigation of incompressible axi-symmetric
turbulent boundary layers; Aerodynamic interference between fuselage and nacel1es in case
of rear mounted engines; Theoretical computation and expenmental investigation of the
incompressible flow in annuJar diffusers: Theoretical computation of the aerodynamic
characteristics of swept wings and delta wings in compressible subsonIc flow; Experimental
investigation of the drag and lift coefficients of sphere rotating in a uniform flow about its
axis normal to the flow.
This Laboratory is also assisted by West German Aid and some of the major items of
equipment from West Germany include various types of mechanical and electrical shakers
and transducers, statIc and dynamic stram measunng equipment, frequency counters and
recording instruments, noise and random vibration measuring equipment and spectra a nalysers. Besides, the Labora tory possesses a number of indigeneous general purpose electrical
and electronic instruments used in vIbration studies.
The Mechanisms Laboratory has a considerable number (about 130) of mechanism
models. link motions, mechanical harmonic analysers and function generators. A model of
lobe pump has been fabricated for demonstration, while a Dynamic Balancing Machine has
been designed and is under fabrication.
\

