2:2
Curren t research programme consIsts of VI bra tlonal analysis of swept back air-craft
wing wIth masses attached; Elect rical analogue networks of mechanIcal vIbrating systems;
Design of ultraSOnIC machine tool; Response of elastic structures to random noise loading;
Damping characteristics of welded joinb; CharacteristIcs of Indigenous vibration isolation
materiah; Experimental \eflfication of scale modeJ pnnclp)e in vibrations; Design of a
Torsional vibl ation exciter; Design and Calibration of a vibration table; Development of a
shock testing machme; Pneumatic springs; Theol etical and ex,perimental studies of instabilities due to fluid film in journal beartngs; Deterioration of contact surfaces; Mechanics for
computation; and Development of screw conveyer~.
The Atrc raft Structures Laboratory and the Depa rtmen tal Machine shop have been
set up In a separate building of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering. Arrangements
for conducting about 2S experiments are under way in the structureli laboratory. Efforts
are being made to procure a variety of ail craft component~ for IDstructional purposes,
through the Hindustan Aelonaulics Ltd. and Indian Air Force.
The current research programme in the field of Aircraft Structural MechanIcs, Aerodynamics and Propulsion comprises of Elastic and Plastic stress analysis of Plates and Shells;
Vibration of Orthotropic Shells; Tbermal Stress analysis problems; Structural analysis of
Toroidal shell of elliptical cro~s-section under sta tic and d}namic loading condition; Expertmental and theoretical tnvestlgation of grid works, composite beam, orthotropic materials,
multi-layered shells; Non-linear vibrations of plates and shell; Elastic Stability of conservative and non .. conservative systems; Stability problem of superposed fluids; Boundary layer
stability~ Non-linear problems in aerodynamics; Low-speed aerodynamics; and supersonic
combustion.

LIAISON. WITH INDUSTRY
The following projects are taken in colJaboratl0n with industry.
0) Efficiency and Performance CharacteTl~tics of a STOCK BRIDGE damper;
Experimental afld analytical study for Messrs. Crompton EngIneering Ltd.,
Madras.
(ii) VIbration of a coolant mlet pipe for M. A. P. P., Kalpakkam; Experimental
study at I. R. S. , Poondi.
(Hi) Tractor seat spring suspension; Experimental and Anlaytical study for Messrs.
Tractors and Farm EqU1pment~ Madras.
(iv) Manufacture of vibration transducer, collaboration (design and testing of equipment) with Messrs. Hygrodyn Private Ltd., Madras.
(v)
(vi)

Vibration study of a heavy electric motor of SNAM PROGETTI Ltd, supplied
to Madras Refineries Ltd., Manali.
Testing of a rocket fin for the Space Science and Technology Centre, Trivan..
drum, with whom close contacts already exist. Contacts have also been established with the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. and National Aeronautical Laboratory with a view to orient the resea rch and teaching programme of the
Department so as to be of great beneH t to these e~ lablishments by way of supplying proper personnel in the technological field in the future.

