14
(g) J K Chemical~, Bombay
(h) Sandoz Ltd , Bombay
(1) CalIco Chemicals and Plastics Ltd. , Bombay
Dr. V. G. Kubair joined this Department as Assistant Professor.
Prof. Dr. Ing. H. Brauer, visiting Professor from West Germany, jOined tbis Depart·
ment for a stay of two months.
Dr. Albrecht Seifert, joined this Department as Associate Professor for a period of
one year.
Prof. Dr. lng. H Brauer delivered a series of lectures on "Advancei in Chemical
Enginee ring" from February I 0 to 21, J969,
Represen tatives from chemical industry have attended the course besides the staff
members of the Department.

DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The annexe buildmg of the Hydraulic Laboratory is almost completed. Towing tank
building of length 95 m and width 11 m is also nearing completion and the towing equipment
from We~t Germany is expected to arrive shortly.
The new building for housing the Structures Laboratory is nearing compJetion and will
be ready for occupation from next academic year. The first consignment of equipment from
the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to arrive in a short time.
Dr. Bieger, Professor of Civil Engineering at the Technical University of Hannover,
was in lhe Department as Guest Professor from 10th February to 20th March and gave a
series of talks on ., Special Structures."
Consultancy and Investigations for few projects, in and around Madras, have been
undertaken.
The Civil Engineering Association, whose activities for 1968·69 were inaugurated in
September 1968, has conducted many Seminar talks both for students and staff.

Seminar programmes in various sections have also been actively arranged.
Structur.es Laboratory: The following equipments have been added.
). Displacement Transducer
2. Facit CI-13 Mechanical Calculator
Hydraulics Laboratory :
1. Oscillating gate with variable speed motor for study of roll wa ve in the ~ tilting
flume has been installed and studies are in progress
2. The Hele-shaw model has been completed
3. States of flow model is in progress
The members of the staff in Structural Engineering attended the International
Conference on Shear, Torsion and bond in Reinforced and Prestressed Concrete held at the
P. S. G. College of Technology, Coimbatore from 14. 1. 1969. to 17. 1. 1969. Four
papers were presented at the conference.

