25

Dr. M. H. Abdul Khader attended the 11th Conference on Hydraulics and Hydraulic
Structures in Genova, Italy and presented a paper.
Two papers have been contributed to the symposium on u Computer applications in
Civil Engineering" at Trivandrum during Jan. 69 and to the Fluid Mechanics Conference at
Jadavpur, Calcutta during March, 1969.
Dr. lng. H. Cordes has joined the Structural Engineering section on the 10th of
December, 1968 as Senior Scientific Assistant.
Dr. Shanmugam and Dr. Radhakrishnamurthy have joined the Department as Pool
Officers.
Mr. A. V. Gopalakrishna has joined as full time Research Scholar.
Mr. S. Subramanian has joined as Junior Research Fellow under the C. S. I. R.
Scheme.
Mr. K. GopaJakrishnan has joined as Associate Lecturer.

DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The tempo of activity relating to testing, consultancy and fabrication jobs undertaken
by the different laboratories of the department has been on the increase.

Arrangements are being made for visits of senior under-graduate and post-graduate
students to industrial plants in and around Madras. A group of 111,3 B. Tech. students
recently visited some industries in Bangalore, Poona and Bombay.
Work on the installation of the transformer yard and switching station in the
Department has been completed. Installation work in the High Voltage Laboratory is fast
progressing.
The recent addition to the equipment in the Department has been the A. L. Network
Analyzer used for simulating large power systems. It is hoped that this will give an
impetus not only to research work in power Systems Stability in the Department, but also
be a valuable tool for the Electricity Boards of the Southern States of the Country.
Two additional specializations, namely (i) Radar Technology and (ii) Traction
Technology have been envisaged as part of the M. Tech. programme in this Department.
Admissions to the new post-graduate M.S. Degree Course have been made in
January this year.
A Sequential Summer School in Electrical Engineering will be run by this Department
for three summers starting from May to July, 1969.
The post-graduate seminar continues to be held on Saturday mornings, and provides
opportunities for the post-graduate students to gain experience in technical exposition and
to be exposed to subjects outside their own fields of specialization.
This year, Dr. K. S. Narendra, a Visiting Professor from Yale University, Prof.
B. M. Tareev, Prof. V K. Gausakov, Prof. M. D. Karasev and Prof. V. A. Kozlov (all
Visiting UNESCO Professors) from Regional Engineering College, Warangal and Dr. Dros,
4

