26

Director, Components Division, Philips-HoJIand addressed the staff and students of the
Department.
Dr. Y. Narayana Rao and Dr. C. Dattatreyan have joined as Assistant Professors.
Dr. M. Mukunda Rao joined as Lecturer. Mr S. Raman joined as ASSocIate Lecturer.
Messrs. V. Venkateswara Rao, N. Narasimha Raju and V. C. V. Pratapa Reddy joined the
Department as Senior Tecbnical Assistants.
Mr. A. Chandrasekharan, Lecturer has left for training in West Germany. Dr. G. N.
Garud, Asst. Prof. Jeft the Dept. to join the Visweswaraiya Regional Engg. College, Nagpur as
Professor.

DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
INSTRUMENTATION SECTION
Instrumetation Elective students are in the final stage of fabrication of components
for the different projects. Research is being done on friction and wear in sintered bearings.

PRODUCTION ENGINEERING AND MACHINE TOOL SECTION
The general' activities of the section have been Laboratory work (Machine Tools and
Metrology) for the under graduates and post graduate students. The Post-graduate students
are carrying out projects on Machine Tool Design.
Four staff members of this section are carrying out Pb. D. work on the followIng:
1. Study of surface deterioration of Contact Surface gears.
2. Investigation of the Secondary Shear Phenomena in MetaJ cutting.
3. Study of Hot machining.
4. Study of Optimum conditions in Ultrasonic machining.
Research Project at Post-graduate level are :
1. Desi.gn, and Development of Press tools for forming Loudspeaker frames for a
local industry.
2. Design and fabrication of cams for use on our Automat for man ufacture of components for a local industry.
3. Improvement and adoption of the presently developed oscillating tool, for use on
our Automat with the object of chip breaking.
4. Design, development and fabrication of hydraulically operated horizontal drilling
machine.
S. Design, development and fabrication of hydraulic copying device.
6. Electrolytic grinding.
7. ECM Machining.
A Spark erosion machine hal been received.

