27
HEAT TRANSFER AND THERMAL POWER LABORATORY
Dr. R. C. Raichura joined as Asst. Professor on 28-11-'68
Dr. M. Nagaraj joined as Post Doctoral Fellow on 15-2-1969.
Dr. L. Narjes gave three lectures at I. I. Sc. Bangalore on 17f 18 and 19-2-'69 on the
to pies mentioned below.
(a) Application of Energy to Combustion and Heat Transfer.

(b) Energy and optimization procedures for airconditioning and refrigeration units.
(c) Optimiza tion methods for jet propulsion with respect to Energy.

I. C. Engines Laboratory:
With the lotroduction of the Master's Degree Course in heat power, the Internal com ..
bustlOn engines laboratory is offering new courses in thermodynamics and gas and vapour
cycle analysis The section has added to its roll three research scholars in the M. S. Programme introduced in the Institute this semester. The courses offered by the section are
backed up by laboratory courses, which are oriented mainly towards measuring techniques.
Professors P. S. Myers and O. A. Uyehara of the University of Wisconsiq, U.S.A.
gave a series of lectures on topics pertaining to I. C. Engine research. The lectures were
well received by both academic and industrial I. C. Engineers.
The section has received an NSU-WankeJ rotary piston engine.
being erected in the new test cubicles of this laboratory.

The engine is

The first of the four test cubicles of the laboratory is nearing completion. The Daim ...
ler Benz manifold injection (petrol) engine coupled to Schenk eddy current dynamometer is
erected in the first cubicle; the remote control and instrument panel are situated in a sound
proof air-conditioned observation room.
The laboratory bas successfully completed an industrial project for MIs. Carburettors India Ltd., Madras. A carburettor of indigenous make was tried in place of the imported ones on the Ambassador passenger car. The laboratory has successfully developed this
carburettor.
ChaDges in Staff :
1. Mr. S. Duraiswamy, S.T.A., left the Institute and has taken up higher studies in

the U.S.A.
2. Mr. G. John Sundar Rao has successfully completed his Technical Teacher
Training course in our laboratory and has taken up a position with Military Engineering
College, Secunderabad.

MACHINE ELEMENTS" MECHANICAL HANDLING LABORATORY
The new laboratory for Machine Elements & Mechanical Handling was inaugurated
on 24-1-1969 by Dr. Bechtloff who left lIT on 26-1-69 for Germany.
Machine tools and test stands have been shifted from metal forming laboratory to the
new laboratory. The new laboratory is expected to be ready for oceupation in 3 months.

