28
A new M. Tech. course maJonng in Mechanical handling has been started.
M. S. Degree students have joined.

Two

Research activities:
fa) Testing of cast and welded wheels under axialloading, with a view to ultimately
develop rational design procedures; equipment for the purpose has been
constructed and is in use.
(b) Characteristics of brakes and brake-linings; equipment is under construction.
(c) Design and construction of a wire rope fatigue testing machine; the machine is
currently being designed.
(d) Investigation of strains and contact stresses in wire ropes wound over pulleys;
equipment is under construction.
(e) Characteristics of foam springs.
(f) Efficiency studies on planetary gea r drives.
(g) Design of linkages to generate functions of two va riables; practical design
procedures have been developed.
Sri V. V. N. Rayudu, Asst. Professor, left for Germany on 2nd Dec., 1968.
Dr. Bechtloff left for Germany after the end of his contract period on 26-1-1969.
Sri M. A. Parameswaran, joined on 20-12-1968 as Asst. Professor.
Sri M. Madhusudana Rao, joined on 16-10-1968 as Associate Lecturer.
Prof. Dr. lng. Kurt Talke (Technical University, Stuttgart) has delivered lectures on
"Involute Gear" during the month of November, 1968.

TURBOMACHINES LABORATORY
In the Laboratory the stationary and rota ling axial-flow cascades testing bed
(medium' air) IS completed except the stator blades which are under production
now. The rotating axial flow testing bed (medium: water) is also completed except the
blades which are under production.
Apart from the normal instrucLional activities connected with the undergraduate and
post-graduate classes, the laboratory is concentrating on the following projects:

Basic research :
(I) Investigation of the flow condition in the vane channels of radial flow pumping
machines with reference to dead zones.
(2) Axial flow pump-turbines.
(3) Investigation of performance of Radial blower with reference to the Boundary
La yer growth.
IDdustrial Research :
(1) Studies on the performance of Turbine blades profiles.
(2) Studies on the exhaust casing of a steam turbine.

