29
(3) Testing of a trailer pump from Eastern Safety Engineering Company, Madras.
(4) Testing of a Monoblock pump from MIs Mouli & Sons, Coimbatore.
(5) Design and manufacturing of two Stage blower for MIs Schnebel Industries,
Madras.
(6) Testing of deep well pump for Mis Jothi Engineering Works, Madurai.
(7) Designing of axial flow fan for an airconditioning unit for Prof B. Sengupto

M. Tech. Projects
(1) Influence of the free rotating or pre~gUlde blades on the cha ractenst ic of pumplOg
turbomachines.
(2) Influence of shapes of stationary head of hubs on the flow pattern and veJocity
distribution.
(3) Study of the flow condition in radial impellers with tandem vanes.
Two students have joined the newly started M. S course in the Department of
Mechanical EngIneering taking Turbomachines as their elective.
Mr. Tbom:jlS Mathew, who had earlier joined the Laboratory as a Teacher Trainee,
left the Laborato/iY for a job outside the I. I. T.
Dr. D. Prithvi Raj, who was on study leave, returned from U. K. in December, 1968
and joined the laboratory as Assistant Professor.
A series of seminars on important topics are arranged in the Labora tory from the
second half of March, 1969.
In the third sequential summer school during May-June 1969, Prof. W. J Fezereisen
from the University of Wisconsin participated and delivered lectures on the "Applications
of principles of thermodynamics and fluid mechanics lo the design and analysis of gas
turbines and turbo machines in general u •
•

DEPARTMENT OF METALLURGY
The main event during this period is the visit of two German Professors, Dr. Ing.

W. Panknin of the Institute for Metal Forming of the Technical University, Berlin
and Dr. Ing. Jurgen Ruge, Director. Instut fur Schweisstechnik, Technical University, Braunschweig, West Germany. Dr. Ing. Panknin is delivering a series of lectures
since 17th Feb., 1969 on "some aspects of metal forming". Prof Dr. Ing. Jurgen Ruge
bas given a eleven-lecture series between 24th February and 15th March 1969. The lecture
topic is "some aspects of Welding Metallurgy. "
A new academic programme leading to the degree of Master of Science (MS) has been
started. Scholars are working presently in the fields of welding metallurgy, process metallurgy hot and cold forming of metals and foundry science.
The sixth National Metallurgists' Day was celebrated by the I.LT, Madras Chapter
of the Indian Institute of Metals at this Department. A special lecture entitled "C is for

