30
Chromium" was delI-vered by Dr. S. Ramaseshan, Deputy Director, Material Sciences
DivisIon, National Aeronautical Laboratory, Bangalore. Dr. A. Ramachandran, Director,
J I.T., Madras, presided over the function.
Prof. E. G. Ramachandran returned in November, 1968 from his vIsit to West Germany
and England, where he visited many leadlDg teaching t research and development establishments in metallurgy.
The following staff members have joined the Department.
8ft D.R. Gopalakrishna Acbar as AssocIate Lecturer on 8-11-1968.
Sri 8. Natarajan as S.T.A. on I-iI-196ft
Sn S. Annamalai as Foreman on 2-12-68.
Sri R. Ranga Raju as Technica1 ASsIstant on 6-2-1969.
Sri G. Jothinathan as Technica1 Assistant on 17.2·1969.

DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
Equipment for psychology Laboratory has been receIved and is beIng installed. The
Industrial Engineering Laboratory is also expected to be ready by the beginning of next
academic year.
Mr. C. Ramachandran has commenced his series of lectures on ' History of Economic
Thought' in connection with his Ph. D. programme .
.gome of the lectures arranged by the Department, a talk 00 Tragedy by Prof·
A. L. Krishnan, two lectures on 'Technological Progress-Curse or Blessing' by Prof,
Friedrich Weltz, SociologIst, West Germany, proved very popular with the students.
Dr. V. Anantaraman who was away at Harvard, U. S. A. on International Teachers
Programme, bab just returned to [he InstItute.
Miss Padma Shastn and Mr. Abraham Kurian have joined the Economics and English
faculties of the Department. Dr. Y. Nagend ra has joined the Faculty as a Lecturer in
Statistics.

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
The usual tempo of research work has been maintained in the various sections of this
Department. The necessary civil works have started in the special analytical instruments
laboratory to house the mass spectrometer, which is expected to arrive shortly.
The high pressure catalytic flow reactor and its auxiliary units received from Germany
a few months back have been put into operation. The German aid in the form of equipment is in the final stages of planning.

