32
Dr V Subba Rao re . . jolned the Department after spending 16 months in Germany
under the DAAD Scbola rships programme.
Mr A. V. Gopalaknshna, after completing the requirements for Pb.D., has left
for the Iowa State University of Science and Technology to take up research and
training.
Two further issues of the "Journal of Mathematical and Physical Sciences" have
been brought out.

DEPARrrMENT OF PHYSICS
The tempo of research and development activities in the various laboratones of the
Department has been on the increase. Number of papers are published in standa rd
journals in India and abroad More tban a dozen Staff and Research scholars of the
Depa rtmen t pa rtlcipated in the International Symposium on the Nonmetallic '3olids
at Delhi and the Solid State Physics SymposIum at Bombay and presented papers.
Sri S. Natarajan, Research Scholar of the Department was awarded the Ph. D.
degree for his lhess titled" Crystal structure of some thiourea complexes of cadmium".
A short term course for three weeks on High Vacuum Technology, organised jointly
by the Institute and the Bhabha Atomic research centre, was started at this Department in
December, 1968 and a good number of Staff members took part in the organisation of this
Course. Fo r the fir~l time, the I and II Year M.Sc. students wen 1 on an educational tour to
vatlOUS Industries and research institutions in the South. The tempo of activity in the Physics
Seminar continues to be maintained. Semmar talks on various topics of current interest in
Physics are given by the II Year M.Sc. students.
The following distinguished scientists from abroad visited the Department and gave
a series of lectures in their fields of specialisation.
1. Dr. Frederick C. Brown~ University of Illinois, USA.
2. Dr. J. Gibson Winans. State University of New York, USA.
3. Df. Chik, Max. Planck Institute, Germany.
4. Dr. A. B. Seot, Orgoan University, USA.
5. Dr. A. B. Liddiard, A.E.R.E. Harwell, UK.
6. Dr. Runciman, A.E.R.E. Harwell UK.
7. Dr. Robin, Naval Research Lab, Washington, USA.
Prof. C. Rama Sastry, Head of the Department of Physics, returned after a very
successful trip to various Universities in West Germany. Dr. B. Sivaram joined the Departmen t as a Lectu rer.

