FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION ONLY

(701mbastimas
Vol. I, No. 7

IIT Madras, I5th March, I963

l0 nP.

sworn

2!

SAGA OF THREE
EVENTFUL DAYS
Madras, March 4, 1963 (Campastimer News

Service).

February is the month in which

the I.I.T. was born, and. the same month saw
the I.I.T. take pride of place in the Debating
and Literary map. The story of how Ramesh

Vaswani and T. S. Ananthu bagged two All
India Debating Trophies at Calcutta and
Kharagpur, reads like a thriller. I.I.T.
Kharagpur had sent a memo to all the other
I.I.T.s and to prominent Colleges all over

India asking them for their views on the idea
of cancelling the Annual Debate for the Sarcjini Naidu Memorial Trophy. Our Institute
was of the opinion that due to the National

Emergency the. Debate should be cancelled.
Kharagpur took the majority vote and decided

to hold the Debate. The Institute Gymkhana,
however, decided not to send a team. Just
about a week before Sarojini Naidu Day, an

invitation from the Bengal Engineering College was received for their Al India Debate.
R. A. Vaswani and T. S. Ananthu persuaded
the Gymkhana to send a team.

And so it

happened that the star Debating Pair of I.I.T.
Madras left for Calcutta on February 21 to
blast the microphones out of their sockets.

Tabled Trophies
and there aren’t all we got.

Just one week before this, T. S. Ananthu

and R. Venkateswaran had bagged the Law
College Trophy.

The latter was declared the

best speaker.

'

Competition at Kharagpur was stiﬁ. At Sibur B. E. College, T. S. Ananthu and R. A.
aswani were declared second and third, res~
pectively, each receiving a book prize.
3 p.m. on February 25 saw R. Venkateswaran and V. Siddhartha ‘cutting’ the last hour
to touch up their speeches for the Gordon
Mathew Cup. Representing the Institute as
defending champions (R. A. Vaswani and

V. Siddhartha won the cup last year, as will
be remembered), the pair thought it was their
duty to see that the trophy was out of the
Institute for not more than ﬁve hours. And
after spending an extremely suspenseful hour
at Madras Christian College, the judges decided (very easily, as Prof. A. L. Krishnan,
one of the judges, observed) to award the

coveted trophy to the I.I.T. team.

V. Sid-

dhartha was declared the second best speaker
of the evening.

On the same occasion, Miss Parvathi
Menon of Ethiraj College was declared the

012 biberfy
Do we ever dwell on words that have made

history? Words that have stirred the hearts
and minds of all mankind and set ﬁre to the
noble spirit lurking in them; words that have

set men in pursuit of an unknown' goal in the
realms of that fascinating region known to us

as mind; words that have wrought unforgettable deeds on the anvil of Time; words that
have made men out of beasts? One such ins-

piring word is Liberty. We all think we know
what liberty is. It seems so plain and simple.
But when we think of the great mystery that
shrouds this word, when we think of the in-

numerable deeds of valour performed for this
stirring idea, we pause to think and wonder at
the greatness of this word.
To be free to do as one likes, to be like a
free bird soaring higher and higher into inﬁnite

regions of happiness is really thrilling. The
bird in the cage does not know the sweetness
of spring. It is only a free man who can appreciate the depth of meaning contained in this
word.

l

innumerable things that inhabit it are slaves to

the laws of nature. Man cannot change it. He
can only adjust himself to these laws. Then
how could the idea of liberty have grown in

the mind of man who is forever bound by the
shackles of the laws of nature? It is true
that man as a creature can never be free.

He

cannot live long without food and rest.

But

there is in man a region which can withstand
the vagaries of nature, which can weather the
storms of sorrow and diﬂ’iculties, and that

region is his mind. ‘ In the world there is
nothing great but man, and in man there is
nothing great but mind ’. It is in man’s mind
that we must search for the origin and growth
of liberty. A person may be physically perse—
cuted, he may be conﬁned to iron gates of a
prison, yet his immortal mind will sCorn the
massive bolts of his prison walls—no chains
(Continued on page 4)

ON OTHER PAGES
Page

A Pick From Three (Story)
U and ME
IITanian cariCATure

4
5
5

The former has known what liberty is, but the

From Here and There
Over A Cup

6
7

M. I. T. tournaments. Details appear elsewhere.
On the whole, it has been a very good year

slave has no opportunity to know what it
means. If tomorrow the doctor were to ask

Sportfolio

..

Desire

. . IO

Sannyasi and The Loin Cloth

.. n

for our I.I.T. in the Literary, Debating and

a slave to alcohol just as the black man is a

Sports ﬁelds,

slave to him.

best speaker, While the Pennathur Seshashai
Cup for the best women’s team went to
Women’s Christian College.

Asif the above was not enough, Lionel
Paul won the Tennis Singles title in the

It is hoped that in the years

to come the representatives of this Institute
will keep it right on top.

Can a man call himself free?

The white

man, we say, is superior to the coloured one.

the white man to give up drinking, will he be
able to do it P Certainly not ! Because he is
How then can he call himself

free? In some way or the other, man is a
slave to nature’s laws. The earth with the

Next Issue:

The Foreign Expert,
by Tee Aar.

9

