CAMPASTIMES
CLASSIFIED DIVERTISEM E NTS
BUSINESS OFFERS
A Bombay student of I B. Tech. at I.I.T.,
Powaai, Bombay, wishing to read Campastimer on the date of its publication, is
willing to exchange for a similar seat at I.I.T.
Madras. Please write to P. S. Malhotra, Roll

No. 0.0017/62,

Tolstoy

Hostel

FREE! FREE!! FREE!!!
A Free Trip to Europe and back by air,
with all expenses paid, is oifered to
any reader suggesting the best title to the
forthcoming volume containing the collected
Editorials of Mr. Bawa.
‘

—Manager, Campartimer.
SEE MADRAS !
ALL Newcomers to Madras may avail them-

selves of the Institute Omnibus service
for school and college going children starting at 8-30 in the morning. Special tourist
attractions: I.I.T. Amphitheatre, Gajendra
Circle, Madras boundary at the Institute
gate, Kalakshetra, Theosophical Society,

Andhra Mahila Sabha Nursing Home, Kapali
Talkies (the cheapest theatre in the world
outside I.I.T), Kapaliswara Temple, the
famous Luz Corner, Santhome (one of the
oldest churches in India), the Marina, All

India Radio, Queen Mary’s College (working
hours 10 to 3, closed on Sundays), Lady
Willingdon’s Training College, Presidency
College, Pycrofts Road (the most crowded
road in the city), Church Park

Educational :
BEST PosTAL TUTUTION IN ENGINEERING
TECHNOLOGY ~— SPECIAL SHORT TERM
CONDENSED COURSE To MEET THE GROW-

Convent,

Gemini Studios, Stella Maris College (work—
ing hours 9w 5-30), Holy Angel’s Convent,
Vani Mahal, Panagal Park, Mambalam Station,
Saidapet Station, Saidapet petty cases court

(for cycle offenders), Raj Bhavan, Engineering
College, and back to the campus. The conducted tour will be accompanied by a
running tourist talk by the conductor Sri
Chooramani of Taramani.

of‘ F’ type quarters, constructed within the
I.I.T.

Campus.

All blocks

brand new.

Pucca construction.

Not occupied by any

so far.

conﬁdence, in

Apply

in

sealed

covers, superscribed ‘F TYPE’ to: Shri
Sardar Jhan, Asst. Estate Oﬂicer, I.I.T.,
Madras-36 Inspection by appointment only.
AUTOMOTIVE FOR SALE: Scooter
No. MSW 2610, tip—top condition. Can
be inspected before the Administration Block
of the IIT on any working day without

PROFESSIO \ AL
FOLLOWING an unprecedented pressure
and representations from our customers,
it has been decided to undertake the haircut
of the Institute students in the order of their
Roll Nos. The young sardarjis are informed
that their places in the list are not transferable to others. Priorities and concessions
shown to members of teaching staff are hereby withdrawn.
——Palace Hair Dressers,
I.I.T. Campus
FOR quick sale l A Madras-built super
Go-Kart ‘ Mak II ’ going cheap ; capable

of carrying two under any gate ; excellent for
honeymooning couple ; sure attraction at
children’s fairs; I.I.T. road-tested. Ownergoing off the road for serious studies. Ins-

pection arranged.

Contact Mahesh, Kaveri

Hostel, I.I.T. Madras-36.

I. I. T. FILM CLUB
IN view of the National Emergency we have
reduced the duration of English pictures
from 3g, to 3 hours and Indian pictures from
4% to 4 hours. Members may therefore dispense with pillows hereafter.
——Kapoor, Hon. Secretary.
LEARN Cricket during week-ends. Simple
easy strokes to hit centuries taught.

Subramaniam. Price Rs. 5. Rush in before
stock gets exhausted. Contact: A2, Administration Section, I.I.T. Madras-36.
Don’t be a Superintendent:

tive

book

by an

An

exhaus-

experienced

oﬂicer,

touching the troubles and difﬁculties a Supdt.
of an ofﬁce has to face. A book long aspired
for by those who wanted to become a Supdt.

It includes tips to answer interviews for the
post of Supdt. Book under print. Comes our
on xst April 1963. Price Rs. 7.50. Pre—publi—
cation price Rs. 5.25.

Ensure your copies by

remitting advances by MO/IPO in favour of
the Junior Superintendent, I.I.T. Madras-36.

PERSONAL
DEAR Ananth, please return home. We are
worried about you. Your wedding will

be soon arranged according to your desires and
all your demands for curves and contours will
be met. Do come back to us.
‘
—Grieving parents.

25th. Time of opening tenders: 4. p.m. on
March 24th.

—Estate Ofﬁcer.
PUBLIC NOTICE
SOME professors are seen learning from

their wives car-driving without L boards.
This is an offence under the Madras Vehicles
Act and they are requested to provide themselves with Learner’s Licence before they use
the campus roads.

Security Ofﬁcer,
WARNING NOTICE
SOME rival publications with names Calmpastimes, Campustim'er, Campasrtimes etc.
are reported to be circulating in the country.
It is hereby notiﬁed that any infringement of
our registered name or a colourable imitation

Don’t

—Editor, Campastimer.
TEN tips to become an Assistant. No
lessons. Learn by practice only. You’ll
have to move with me for tan days and

ful, be sportive. Don’t fall exam-sick. Have a
the Assistant Registrar (Academic),
Madras-36.

I.I.T.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
LECTURER thanks all male applicants for
the position of baby-sitter. The only
two lady applicants are being interviewed to-

observe what I do.

You’ll get one tip a day.

Incidental expenses like refreshments,

tea,

etc. for the entire period of ten days to be
borne by the learner. If interested, see me:
V. K. Vaidyanathan, Engineering Section,
I.I.T., Madras—36.

morrow.
PUBLIC NOTICE
ONE Nikolaus Klein of 5 Delhi Avenue, is
absconding from last month with our

staff van CC. 2094..

He has been discharged

PROPOSALS FOR AN ASSOCIATION

BOOKS 85 PERIODICALS Romance in.
Oﬁce: An exquisite novel by Shri

Earnest money deposit

Last date for receiving tenders March

bother about exams. Be happy, be cheer-

LEAVE your worries to my care.

I.I.T. Madras. 36.

attracted by any offer.

Rs. 2.

you buy.

PAYING guest accommodation available.
Malayalee bachelors with knowledge 0
cooking preferred. Age preferably below 28Contact before 20th March Flat No. 14 ‘ E ’
type quarter, I.I.T.

ACHELOR (Box No. 4342, c/o Campastimes) has carefully considered the offers
from a few Professors and Asst. Professors
and regrets his inability to be sufﬁciently

and licensed beggars.

trar, I.I.T. between I and 2 p.m. on any

every day on the pillion seat from his residence at Mylapore to the I.I.T. Campus in the

MATRIMONIAL

TENDERS
SOME plots under the Banyan trees are still
available, suitable for certiﬁed astrologers

working day, with your hat and ball.

—Manager, Campastimes.

Offers to: Shri B. Nagaraja Rao, B.A., B.L.,

waste your precious hours. If you have
no work, learn knitting and help the jawans
ﬁghting at the front. Have free knitting
lessons from Smt. Shoba Shekar Admn.
Section, I.I.T., Madras—36.

thereof will be an offence and answerable at a
court of law. Look for the registered name
of Campartimer in brush-lettering before

Limited seats. A boon to beginners. Meet
in person, Shri R. Natarajan, I.A.S. Regis-

undertaking that he/she will take the seller

mornings and drop him back at home in the

sweets

SAVE FOR THE BRAVE: Ladies, don’t

The purchaser has to give an

evenings, without obligations. Address your

ID-UL—FITR

to the Registrar, I.I.T., Madras—36.

from our service and persons dealing with
him will do so at their own risk.

appointment.

of

available at cheap rates. Apply before

ING DEMAND FOR TECHNOLOGISTS —
DIPLOMA AWARDED — Apply immediately

copy of your question papers in advance from
A Reliable lessee required to take on long
lease or outright purchase of a number

REMNANTS

late : Md. Jalaluddin at the Engg. Section or
Shri Nisar Ahmed at the Gen]. Section of
I.I.T., Madras, with Re. I crossed postal
order for sending detailed price-list.

I.I.T.,

Bombay—76.

[March l5th, I963

THE Advertiser, a member of the Institute
staﬂ, who for obvious reasons remains
anonymous, desires to moot the idea of start—

Tender :
SEALED TENDERS ARE INVITED FROM ExPERIENCED CYCLE STAND CONTRACTORS
UPTO 12 Noon on Ist April 1963, for

undertaking the custody, cleaning and
oiling/ replacing the cycles of the students
and staﬂ parked at various parts of the
campus. For full particulars and prescribed form please contact Assistant
Registrar (Academic), I.I.T., Madras-36.

NOTICE

ing a Henpecked Husbands Association in the
campus before the Ladies’ Club is organized
and put on ﬁrm footing. Suggestions on how
this imminent peril may be overcome and how
we may put up a united front, may be sent to
Box No. 3412, c/o Campaxtimes in sealed
envelopes marked ‘Conﬁdential’. The ﬁrst
meeting will beheld in the underground cells
of the Open Air Theatre after draining off all
the green ﬂuid. Our Association Motto:
‘ Untied we stand, untied we fall’, Men-in—
apron over the world, Unite !
Public Auction :
It is hereby notiﬁed that a public auction
sale of ﬁrewood, broken chairs and desks will
be held on 6th April 1963 at the Institute
Campus. The approximate quantities of differ—
ent items are given below.
: 5oo stacks.
I. Firewood
2. Broken chairs
= 182, Nos.
(I.I.T. make)
3. Broken Students
Desks
= 386 N05.
For further particulars and prescribed form,

,

THE following books and periodicals have
been proscribed from the Institute Library: Lady Chatterley’s Lover, Lolita, Nine
Hour: to Rama, The Ochre Robe, The Nugget,
Campastinicr, and the New China Review.

——Librarian.
CIRCULAR
THE Main Gates of the Institute on the
Guindy Road are to be each used here—
after on alternative days of the month. This
will give the two approach roads an equally
worn-out appearance. The In-gate will be
open on odd—numbered days of the month

(Ist, 3rd, 5th . . .) and the Out—gate on even—
numbered days (2nd, 4th, 6th .. . .) . On
special days like the Institute Day and IndependenCe Day, both the gates will be kept
open.

This will, however, be compensated

by keeping both the gates closed on the
following day.
~Asst. Registrar (Adm.)
UNUSED Chapathis of the Kaveri, Krish»
na and Narmada Hostels. Very useful

for leather dealers. Chappals made out of
this leather last long and serve better. Price
Rs. 10 for hundred. Concession for bulk

please apply to ‘ The Security Ofﬁcer I.I.T.,

orders. Correspond with 25 nP. stamped
and self-addressed envelope for sending the
specimen chapathi, to: The Warden, Kaveri

Madras-36 ’

Hostel, I.I.T. Madras-36.

