[March |5th. I963

CAMPASTIME’S
Liberty—(Continued from page I)

curious about the girl and wanted to know

21 Pick from Three

can bind it, and his mind will soar into unBY S. BUKHT

known realms of happiness, because he has the
liberty of the mind.

It was at the Asteric Movie Studio in

Having conceived in his mind the noble
spirit of liberty, man marched. through the
ages towards his ultimate goal, the fulﬁlment
of all his desires in just one hopeful thought:
To be free forever. But he can never be completely free. He is bound by nature, and as
the thinker says, ‘ Let him beat his drum as
loudly as he will, let him shout his battle-cry
as ﬁercely as he may, let him defy the laws
which are round him on every side till he

aches in every limb; still he must seem to the
Universe as a child who imagines his nursery
to be the Arabian Desert and concieves of
himself as Alexander ’.
Charles and James Stuart thought it was

their inherited right to force their will upon
the people. Tyranny and persecution brought

out the best in people. When such ruthless
kings forced their sujects to believe in the

religion they followed, there was a great turbu—
lence—and all because man’s mind was being

attacked. His liberty of the mind was being
encroached upon.

It was a tyranny aimed at

making all men think alike.
the soul, not of the body.

It was murder_ of

Milton was right when he said, ‘ Give me
the liberty to know to utter and argue freely
according to conscience, above all liberties’.

It is the greatest liberty of all. We may be
free to live where we like, we may be free to
eat what we like, we may be free to work what
we like, but if we are not allowed to speak
what we think, what freedom is there i
In our present time, no ruler or leader ban
make us think in the same way. But Society
as a whole dislikes the man with original thin-

king. The freedom of our mind is slowly but
steadily being eaten away by newspapers. We
seem to think that the newspaper is correct,
and mould our thinking according to it. Our
minds are becoming less and less original in
their ways. We are slaves without our OWn

knowledge.

It is our duty to guard the free-

dom of the mind. No state, however strong
it may be, no man, however powerful he may
be, must be allowed to mould our ways of
thinking. Liberty exists in the mind, and to
protect, to nurture, to cherish it, is our duty.

The bloody revolution of France and the
struggle for independence in the United States
were all external manifestations of a mind
surging towards freedom. In its seething rage
it struck down mighty emperors and showed
to the world that freedom of mind can exist
only if there is freedom of the body. Let us

remember that eternal vigilance is the price
of liberty. We should be prepared to guard
that freedom of the mind and body with our
lives, nay, with our last drop of blood.
SHANKAR.

London that I ﬁrst met the producer David

Leeming. We were then working on the ﬁlm
which was based on my recently published
novel ‘Tragic Comedy ’. He was a lean and
handsome man of about thirty—two. The
ﬁrst impression that I got of him was that he
was acold—hearted man, but as time passed
by and I was better acquainted with him
during the course of our work I began to see

that he really was a warm~hearted and gene—
rous person.
But for reasons unknown to me but which
I came to ﬁnd out later he was trying to hide
all these qualities under the veil of the strict
discipline that he enforced upon all the

people working under him, including the
actors. It was for this reason that I once
had trouble with him over the interpretation
of a particular scene, which he tried to direct
in a totally different way to what I had written.
I was afraid the quarrel would have got
serious had it not been for the timely intervention of one of the actors.
However by the time we were almost done
with the making of the ﬁlm we had become

intimate friends and often I used to visit his
home, a beautiful little bungalow near the
beach. He had a charming wife and a very

cute little daughter. The three' of them made
you feel so much at home that you felt as
though you were a member of their family. I
think those were the happiest days I had ever
spent.

gamma ma ﬂaw)
E. S. BHAGIRADHA Rao
Once upon a lovely time,

I saw a smart and smiling girl.

the teacher had mentioned in his lecture, was
returning home thinking about what he has
just read.

‘ Hey, Dave ole boy,’ called out a voice
from the park that he was just passing.
David looked around only to ﬁnd John
sitting on a bench. Beside him was the girl
that David used to meet when he used to go
to College.
‘ Got any time P ’ asked John.
‘ Sure,’ replied his friend from across the
barrier.
‘ Come on in,’ he called.
For want of other idleness John decided to

Jom.
‘
‘ Here,’ said John coming to meet him at the
entrance, ‘ allow me to introduce Miss Jennie
Gilbert ; Jen, this is David Leeming.’

‘ Oh,’ she said as she smiled and extended
her hands to her new friend,

‘ we see each

other quite often.’
‘ Funny,’ said John surprised, ‘ you never
mentioned it to me.’
David came to her rescue, ‘ I see her in the
mornings when I go to college; her house is
just two blocks away.’
‘Gosh, that’s news to me,’ replied John.
They talked for an hour or so before David

thought that it was time for him to go.

He

took their leave and strolled out of the garden.
‘ Well what do you think of him i‘ ’ asked

John as soon as his friend was out of sight.
‘ OK. I suppose, amusing though, I mean
the way he looks at you. He is all attention

go on for hours.

I remember that s0me of

our Saturdays and other holidays were spent
talking. It was on one of these holidays that
he told me his story. I had upto now imagined
that such things could only happen in the
movies or in novels.

No, but there was an

incident that had actually taken place in real
life. Here is the story as he told it to me in
the ﬁrst person but personally between you
and me I think it would make better reading if
told in the third person. It may sound rather
romantic in the beginning and I questioned
him on it but he assured me that it was
nothing but the truth.
David Leeming and his parents lived in

Cowley, a

modest little town in North

England. In spite of the fact that he was
doing fairly well in his studies, all his child-

hood and for that matter all his school and
college years were spent under the painful

sense of not belonging to the world. No, it
was not exactly that, but he felt the town
and perhaps even the whole country was

somehow unable to contain him.
to get

out and see the world.

He wanted
Financial

'

It was then that he felt the tremendous
(Lila

Perrson. One day David was unusually at
the library looking up some point of interest

Although he looked a quiet person yet it

conditions however did not permit this little

ﬂaunt)

.At the college among his more intimate
friends were a French boy called John Gourc
and boy from Sweden by the name of Don

was wonderful how once got talking he could

luxury.
gland

more about her.

urge to write, to create in the realm of literature a world which he thought would be

able to contain him. He wrote but when the
story was ﬁnished he would put it away in a
separate ﬁle.
After passing out of the High School he
decided to join for Dramatics and had himself enrolled in the College of Fine Arts. At

this time of his life he began to write plays .
but still he did not send them to any magazine.
The life at this college was very free and for
the ﬁrst few months he was intoxicated with
the sense of freedom that he was n0w able

I found her smiling
As she smiled at me.
She smiled at me
As I cried at her.
I cried at her
As I found her smart.
I found her smart
As she bit me hard.
She bit me hard
As I winked at her.
I winked at her
As she blinked at me.
She blinked at me
As I dashed at her.
I dashed at her
As I sped her past.
I sped her past
As I saw her yonder
I saw her yonder
As I found her smiling

At ﬁrst his lodging and boarding was a
head-ache to him. He realised that if he had
to continue his studies for the next three
years the hotels where he was staying would
prove too expensive. There was no other
cheaper hotel or boarding house in the vici-

And round and round and round. ...

From being vaguely interested *he

to enjoy. During the spare time he took up
a part time job in a lace making ﬁrm.

nity. Soon, however, the problem was solved
for he came into contact with a family that
were ready to take him in as a paying guest.

In the neighbouring house two blocks away
there was a girl whom he only knew by sight
because since they only met in the morning
when he used to be on his way to the college.

grew

when you speak.

Clever? ’

‘ Well, not exactly.’
‘ Mediocre E ’
‘ No, not that. A little more than the
average. Our tutor always praises his plays
and stories.’

‘ Really i’ ’
‘ Once I read one of his stories, pretty

interesting, you know. Ask him to lend you
some of the stories he writes.’
That’s how it all began. Whenever
John had nothing in particular to do he went
to Jennie’s house. It was she who encouraged him to write more and sometimes would
give him a plot to work on.
‘John says you write good stories,’ said
Jennie,"why don't you bring them to the
house, I would very much like to read them.’
‘ Well I didn’t think that you would be in—
terested in them.’

‘ I am ’ she added softly.
‘0.K. I will bring them along the next
time I-come.’
And so he took all the stories and the plays
that he had recently written and Jennie was
surprised to see the vast amount of work
that he had done. Sometimes she too would
come to his house, but, it was very rarely

because, she knew that the people in the house
where David lived did not approve of her
coming.
‘ Jen, give me your sincere criticism,’ David
had replied.
‘ I am.’ She answered looking at him,
‘ Only some parts are too sentimental, at least

that’s how I see it.’

She looked at him

eager for a reproof.

But she was mistaken.

‘ Can’t help it Jen.

I guess that’s the way

I am.’ There was a short silence in the room.
Jennie looked out of the window pretending
to be absorbed in the garduer working below.
But she not. It had not taken her long to see
that David was a very sentimental and a
sensitive boy. ‘She wanted to tell him out
she didn’t know how, his sensitiveness made
her scared to take such a harsh step. But
she realized now how much mistaken she was.

He was man enough to recognize his fault
both in his writing and in his personality.
David had been watching her intently all
this while and then gently held both her
hands. The action was not quite familiar and
did not disturb Jennie. But what he asked
her surprised her more.
(Continued on page 8)

