CAMPASTIMES

[March I5th, I963

FROM HERE AND
THERE
BY Scam RANDHAVA

LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
,

F0 CR SH 0 W/

511',
Last month, the IV Year Mechanical
Engineering students arranged a tour to Neyveli, Pondicherry and Sathunar Dam. It was

good fun and particularly amusing were the
eiforts of some of the Staff members to try
and eat their food sitting down cross-legged.

The general standard of our I.I.T. sportsmen seems to be rather poor. A surprising
fact noted was that our staff members seem to
be swifter than many of our students. And
our ‘March Past ’ could have been more

We had to do that at the Ashram in Pondy
where we stayed. Actually, it's not so tough

aptly termed a ‘ Walk Past ’. It would have
been well nigh impossible to have seen a more
listless, apathetic and uninspiring group of

The Kaveri Hostel suddenly seems to be
going practical-minded—teclmically speaking.
The incentives are certamly self-incited.

as it may seem. Let’s assume a person is
lucky and upon parking himself, ﬁnds that

people anywhere else.

the distance from his centroid to the six

training is compulsory for the ﬁrst

A telescope observatory is going to be built

years. One rather feels that even a group of

on the roof; cosmic rays are to be studied by
means of balloons to be sent up from the west

inch high table on which the plate is placed,
is not greater than four feet. Then all that
is required is to lean well forward (taking

wing, and a replica of the Rocket Base at

care not to land on one’s face), dig out a

put up a more spirited and lively show. And
the ‘ music ’ provided for the ‘ March Past’—

Hanuman Road will be set up by Prof. Sid—

spoonful of stew and at the end of a rapid
return stroke, insert it into the mouth. This
motion which strongly resembles that of a
shaping machine, is continued until every-

the less said the better. Perhaps, it was
intended more as a sort of background music
and a poor one at that.

EDITORIAL

dhartha. In short, we are emerging from the
theoretical shell.
All this is exhilarating and a hopeful sign of
the times. Electronics, that fast growing
branch of Physics, the prime factor in techno-

thing disappears. Hats off to the inmates of
the Ashram, especially the noble six-footers !
On our way back to Madras, some thick-

logical growth, is being mastered by graduates
working under Dr. Chandy (who, incidentally,
is also working on practical problems concern-

ing the Theory of Probability). Recent advances
in Switching made by Sarosh, have been most
promising. In the meanwhile, Prof. Siddhartha has taken up Cryogenics and Cybernetics.
The tremendous strides taken by Japan in the

headed buffalo decided to cross the road at
the wrong moment. The driver who had

This is all the more

surprising considering the fact that the N.C.C.

Wounded superannuated soldiers would have

It is hoped that our people would proﬁt
by this experience and put up at least a
smarter show next year.
Yet another interesting feature at our
Sports Meet was that all our ‘ Kumaris ’
were promoted (or demoted ?) to the rank of

no desire to see the stupid beast spattered

‘ Srirnathis ’ by our announcers.

across the windscreen, braked hard. Newton’s Second Law took hold of me by the
shoulder and sent me merrily down the aisle,

for this is not clear ; perhaps, it was intended
as yet another example of our announcers’

followed by Mr. Parmeswaran’s black bag and

‘

Yours etc.

the diesel engine in our way.

Messrs. Pai and Sahasranaman have already
begun their plans for production of that new
engine which, at present, has been sent up to
the patenting ofﬁce at Delhi. Fitter Basu IS

considering new designs and shapes for ﬁvehorsepower motor cycles. Veeraraghavan is
converting an old, rodeo broken, buckling

machine into an amphibian with four wheels.
All these advancements have been made
in spite of no help from the Institute. It is,
therefore, most encouraging, especially, as
procurement of articles under any_price is

quite prohibitory.

The circuit designer de-

serves special credit, as the ordinary radio
amateur today cannot obtain a receiving set

diagram unless he goes through tortuous processes.
Surely, the Institute could ‘lend’ it’s
laboratories and ‘help’ these ‘hams’.

Incidentally,

We deﬁnitely appreciate the patience you
show when your name appears after months
only. Provided you are using your name’or

pen-name at all. Far too many manuscripts
are dropped on our desk which seem to have
ghosts as their authors. We fully understand
that it is extremely unwise to scribble one’s
name below an article or letter designed to
start a revolution with the aim of over-

CLASS?

Will the authorities in charge of allotment

cludes songs in Bengali, English, German,
and Tamil.

even in cases where the applicants are willing

His repertoire in-

Will the gentlemen who think out the
Square Dances, kindly not try to compete
with the London Times? It’s hardly any
use, if nobody can solve them. I don’t know
how Miss Geeta Gopal managed to ﬁnd a
Correct solution, but the fact that Venkobra
knows her, has not been overlooked.
/
Gardening seems to be catching on fast.
The Director’s residence has an attractive
collection of potted plants. _ Other ardent

horticulturists include Dr. Haug and Dr.
Scheer. The former can be seen in shorts
(and apparently nothing else) on almost any
evening advising his gardener on the care and
health of cacti, whereas the latter is specialising
in some red blooms of an obscure breed.
Prof. Narayanamurthi is currently trying to
persuade a bougainvillea creeper to take up

poisitions on his front gate.

It wouldn’t be a

suggests that in view of the frantic effort to

that, sometimes, we simply can’t publish them
all in the issue which they were meant for.

UNDESERVING

of quarters kindly furnish the reasons for
refusing to allot‘ E ’ type quarters to U.D.Cs

a pretty versatile singer.

bad idea to have an annual ﬂower show in our

It is certainly encouraging to see contributions pouring down on us in such numbers

S.

it,
in case some people don’t know it by now,
I may inform them that Mr. Majumdar is

Institute.
Sehgal who made it a habit to feature in
this column almost religiously every month,

ﬂ.» ﬂue,

].C.S.V.

tunately, our rapid progress was retarded by

suﬂer a heavy competition once Dr. Pai perfects his Rs. 5. (5 cms X 5 ems) size transistorised Radio. Radio amateurs who form the
backbone of electronic research, seem to be
popping up from every nook in the Kaveri.

The reason

innumerable (and not so witty) jokes (i).

the owner himself a few seconds later. Forﬁeld of miniaturised apparatus, are likely to

two

expand our national exchequer, the Postal
Authorities should knock off ten percent
from every incoming Money Order.
The ‘ marriage season’ in Velacheri and
the I.I.T. ﬁnal examinations always seem to
coincide. A combination of these two, hardly compatible in nature, invariably succeed in
turning half my hair grey. Ever tried to solve

to pay the minimum rent now paid by the
Assistants? It is understood that a number
of ‘ E ’ type quarters are still vacant. If the
only reason is that under existing rules, a sum

of Rs. 29 only may be deducted towards rent
from U.D.Cs, the difference of Rs. 15 or so,
can be deducted under some other head such

as special surcharge etc. or even as a ﬁxed
‘ voluntary ’ monthly donation.
As matters stand at present and in view of

the national emergency, the proposed ‘ E-z ’
type quarters for U.D.C.s etc. are not likely
to be ready in the near fumre. Moreover it
is said that the ‘ F ’ type quarters now offered
temporarily, have a ﬂoor area of hardly zoo sq.

ft. and comprise of only one living—roomcum—kitchen which would hardly accommodate even a small family.
In this connection it may be of interest to
note that in the Reserve Bank staff residential
colony, they have three types of quarters and

a minimum rent is ﬁxed for each type.

, of the types according to their requirements,
paying of course, the prescribed minimum rent.
It is hoped that a more or less similar
procedure may be adopted even in I.I.T.

and the staff given the option to occupy the
next higher type of quarters (subject to availability of quarters), provided they are willing
to pay the minimum rent now paid by those

eligible for such higher type of quarters.
Yours etc.

a problem in complex calculus with about a
dozen loudspeakers blaring different tunes at
the same time? It’s a worthwhile experience, I can assure you.

The I.I.T. omnibus is a great help to everybody.

The tickets are really colourful, and

Staff

members have the option of occupying any one

‘ AN APPLICANT.
is ﬁxed. Contestants must drive a distance
of six laps. A stop—watch and slide-rule
computation of their average speed can be

one gets the feeling that they are worth the

made.

throwing the government, or, to give a more

fare paid. But, considering that ours is a
technical institute, couldn’t the conductor be

point can be subtracted from a total of ten.

concrete example, declaring one of your

given instructions to provide a positive toler-

teachers a seasoned louse. But why, for
instance, a letter suggesting that the street
lights should be switched on only when need-

ence of about ﬁve minutes on the starting

be deducted as before.

time i At Adyar, I somehow always manage
to reach the bus-stop to ﬁnd the tail-lights
disappearing into the darkness. A long tramp

with the maximum score wins. Speedometers
may be used, but I may add that they are

ed and not in broad daylight, should be
signed by One Interested (who wouldn’t be!),

is fairly beyond us.
We, at any rate, would be interested in those

who help us to make Campartimes what it is.
We don’t like to deal with ghosts.

back, and anyone who has a fair idea of my
weight, is never reluctant to/refuse a lift on
his bicycle.
With regard to my last month’s suggestion

about a car race, I’m afraid a speed trial is
out of the question.

We

Could, however,

arrange something like the Automobile Assoﬂue ﬂ/éﬂﬂa.

ciation does. A particular speed, say 30 mph,

For every unit oﬂ‘ the mark, one

In addition, a surprise speed-check can be
made over a certain stretch. Again points may

Finally, the person

hardly ever accurate. Participants belonging to
the Heat Engines Section will be awarded a
disadvantage of half a point and those from the
Civil Engineering Department a bonus of
one point. That should make it fair. All those
interested may hand in their names to me.
Idea of the month: How about somebody
doing something about our Outdoor Club (TechOut). I want my money back!

