CAMPASTIMES
A Pick —(Continued from page 4)

[March l5th, I963

‘Jen, why don’t we go out to celebrate,
Jennie hesitated eﬁnitely. David seeing
this said, ‘You do ’t have to if you don’t

‘ Sure I do mean it Jean,’ he said his voice a
little higher, ‘ Jen, dont you love me ?’
She remained silent. ‘I didn’t think that
you would ever love me,’ she said as the

want to.’

tears gathered faster and faster in her eyes.

just this once.
‘Jen,’ he said softly as he drew himself

near her.
‘ Yes,’ said Jennie but suddenly felt herself
stiffen.
‘ Do you love me ? ’

' There was another silence, this, time it
lasted longer and was deeper than the last.
Jennie’s mind was suddenly thrown into confusion, in the darkness of which, she tried to
grope around for the answer to as to how exactly she felt towards him. But the darkness
remained and the more she thought the more
excited and confused she became. The

question had truly never confronted her before

I won’t ask you again.’

Jennie smiled across the table and said,

‘ It’s okay just this once.’
It was at this time that the third person
stepped in. Don Persson was a Swedish
student who had alsocome to the college to
study drama. It was not until the annual
summer camp that David and John had come
to know him intimately. He proved to be
quite a friendly character but John found him
too impulsive and rather proud. Anyway the
three of them formed the core of the large

‘How can it ever be that way, Jen. Do
you mean that a man can be with a dame and
not have the desire to possess her.’
‘ It’s true, but.’
‘ No buts,’ replied Don a little angry, ‘ the
truth is you don’t love me enough.’
At this she began to weep but Don took her
into his arms and looked down into her frightened face.
‘ It’s not that,’ she said between sobs.

‘ Then if you love me, Jen,’ he said bending

and now that it was placed before her for the
ﬁrst time, she was totally unprepared to ana-

group of friends that they had, and when

down towards her face, what is there to stand

they came back from the vacation John intro-

between us.

‘
‘
lyse her own feeings.
‘ Well 3 ’ said David almost whispering.

duced him to Jennie.

Jennie turned her eyes away from the win-

The two got along

admirably well.
It was also at this time that David learnt

What more can separate us ?’

She was struggling now both physically and

mentally.
arms.

She was trying to get out of his

But they held her.

dow and directed her gaze on the large clear

exactly how John felt about Jennie.

eyes on his

all for having fun and he was willing to go
along with any girl that would allow him the
privileges he sought,
‘But you know Jennie is not that type,’
John had remarked rather angrily.
‘ I know,’ his friend had replied all to coolly,

‘ No, Jen, tell me that you do love me, tell
me that you are willing to be my wife, tell

‘ she is in my reserve force.

A sudden wave of anger rose in her and
freeing her right arm she pulled him away
and slapped him across the face. The Clasp
that had held her so tight before suddenly
loosened and she felt herself free. Don sat
staring at her as though he had just seen a

expectant face.

David grew

misty before her, and soon tears slowly began
to ﬂow down her pale cheeks.
‘Please,’ she {said ‘don’t ask me such a

question John.’
‘Why?’ asked David ‘is it because you

don't love me ?’
‘Oh please David,’ she replied the tears

ﬂowing more freely.
‘ No you wont tell, I know, you prefer
John, don’t you ?’
It was for just an instant that her sobbing
stopped. The pause was almost imperceptable.
Her heart was too full of emotions and she knew

that on her answer depended perhaps the future of the man that confronted her. If it had
been anyone else she would have told him
that she thought that he was out of his mind

but David was very different.
There was a pause again in which Jennie

He was

When I can’t

ﬁnd some new dame I can always go back to
herl’
‘ Does she know of it P’ John asked.

‘ Probably not,’ he replied amused, ‘ otherwise she wouldn’t be in love with me ! ’

me.’

‘Come off it,’ he ﬁnally told David, ‘It
David gave an angry glance at his speaker.
‘If you are that hard up you can take her. She
is after all yours, young man.’
‘Oh shut up John. I don’t know what
she would do if she knew what you felt towards her. Haven’t you tried to explain to

that I ever said any such thing. Just let’s
No more than.’

Her weeping subsided a little until ﬁnally
she was no longer crying. The crisis passed
she felt a great sense of relief.

‘ You forgive me then ? ’ said David, looking at her keenly.

She did not answer out, merely smiled and
gave him a kiss on the cheek, the kind of kiss
that we see one brother giving her sister while
parting or arriving from some journey. But

it had its effect on David.

The candle of

hope which had been extinguished just a few
moments ago once again burst into ﬂames.

her.’
‘ Explain to a woman specially when she is
in love with you,’
mock laughs, ‘ you
David looked at
better be going P’

he said giving one of his
are oﬂ the rocker.’
his friend and said, ‘ I had
and while he was at the

door he turned around and after looking at
him said, ‘ Ijust pity her.’
The two of them were walking in the park,
Don and Jennie. There was something
strange in the presence of Don, that could
somehow never rest Jennie’s heart. But if she
would only pass and analyse her own feelings
she would certainly discover that it was his
passion that scared her most of all. He was

impetuous in his actions and when excited she

‘ Honestly I don’t know who I love, that’s
if I love' at all. But I do like both of you

would hear his voice shaking with deep emotion. ‘ Jen,’ he said after some reﬂection,

so very much,’ she said.

‘ let’s go back to your home. I have something special that cannot be said in this
place.’

‘Perhaps someday you will know better,’
he said mildly.

‘ May be,’ she replied.

.

A year passed and so intimate had their
relationship become that David at last ventur—
' ed to show her some of his old stories that he

had never shown to anybody.
*‘ Say David,‘ she remarked one day, ‘why
don’t you start sending some of these stories

to some magazines that publish this sort of
work P ’
‘ Come off it, Jen it's not that good yet,’ he
replied.
‘ No, David, I really mean it. If you don’t

have the time I could type it for you.’
‘ Well I will think it over,’ he replied.
A fortnight later he came rushing into the
house bursting with excitement and waving a
cheque.
‘Jen,’ he said excitedly as soon as he was

alone with her ‘ The LATEST has accepted
my article. Here it is in print, and they have
sent me a two pound cheque! ’
‘How wonderful’ said Jennie enthusiastically taking the magazine from him.

‘Jen I am so happy to-day, you know I had
never expected a high concern like this to
accept by stor .’
‘ Well it’s something to be happy, isn’t it P ’

kiss the quivering lips.

feel it.’
Silence reigned between the two friends
while John watched his depressed companion
with his silent and laughing eyes.

Perhaps this pause was just what he needed
for realizing how foolish he had been with
her. And he stood there staring at the ﬁgure

be friends.

‘ Don, Don,’ she cried in desperation.
‘ Oh yes, you do,’ he said and bent down to

ghost.

seems you are in love'with her.’

her he put his arms around her shoulders and
said; ‘ I am sorry Jennie, I have been so
foolish. Forget the whole affair. Just forget

me Jen that you will wait for me till.’ ~

‘ You know then she is in love with you P’
John asked.
‘Sure. I don’t have to be told that, I can

was weeping with the hands to her face.

that lay before him. A sudden warmth and
sympathy ﬁlled his heart and going towards

‘ Please, Don,’ she said, ‘ let m'e go.’

Repentence had come now and sobb-

ing she fell on his neck.

‘ Please Don ’, she

said as she lifted her face upto his, ‘forgive
Don did not say anything but looked

about vaguely.

‘ Even my parents hadn’t

slapped me upto now ! ’
‘ Don, I am very sorry, Ireally am sorry,’

she said trying to look into his eyes.
‘ That’s okay Jen,’ he said trying to soothe
her by stroking her hair. ‘ I wont force you
if you don’t want to say it.’
‘ Don I like you, but I can’t marry you.’
‘ That’s all right,’ he said patting her, and
added after a while, ‘ Well Jen I had better

be going now.’ Good-bye Jen, may be we
shall never meet again ’. ‘ Good bye Don,’
she said extending her hands. ‘I do hope
we will meet again.’ She went to see him off
at the door. They walked in silenCe. Just

before Persson was going out she held him
and looked pleadingly into his eyes.
‘ Forget it? ’ said Persson and walked out.
But even then Jennie thought she detected
a tone of bitterness, the tone that comes only
to those whose pride has been hurt“ She
felt sorry for him, no, for herself, no, no for
. . .
. it‘ was all so confusing.

That night she did not sleep well and the
ﬁnal scene with Don lived within her fora
long time.
~
Another year passed and by this timeDavid’s
stories had begun to attack public attention.

Some magazines had even asked him to write
for them regularly. His literary talents did
not only attract attention in this ﬁeld but

Jennie sensed what it would be and then

also in the world of movies. He was now
busy writing a script. for one of the companies.

suddenly felt herself grow tense and hot.
‘ All right,’ she said relieved at the thought

Jennie was of course helping him with the

that he had at least given her sufﬁcient
warning.
‘ Jennie,’ said Don, as soon as he had settled

typing.

One day he came back excitedly from
college with a letter in his hand. Jennie was
not there and so he had to wait some time

down in the drawing room, ‘Jennie this has
been on my mind for several months now and
Il thought today would be the best day to tell
you about it.’ He looked at her for some little

before she ﬁnally came.

sign of encouragement but received none.
She was staring at the ﬂoor.
‘Jennie, I will not be able to ﬁnish this

himself that it was true. ‘ Why that’s wonderful,’ said Jennie. -‘When are you going?’
‘ When the term ends,’ he said; ‘ You know
Jennie,’ he said as soon as they had entered
the house. ‘I had never imagined that a

course.

My father is not well, and so I have

to leave for Sweden.’

An expression and

‘ Hello David,’ she said, ‘ what’s the news?’
David proudly held out the letter that he

had been reading and re—reading to convince

sympathy overshadowed her face as she
looked at him. A sudden chill from the future

company would be so willing to ﬁlm the story

danger made her, however, look at the ﬂoor
once again.
‘ I was wondering whether you could wait

almost afraid of it all. I mean you always
read of writers who have to go through a lot
of trouble. I had been fully prepared for

for me till things got settled a bit at home !’

that type of life. I had never expected such
an easy way out ’.
‘ Well I guess that it does happen to a few
only. I think you will have to be very
careful.’
~
‘ Yea,’ he said reﬂectingly, ‘ but Gosh! I
am really excited. A life in the studios even

There was a silence, at very long one.

‘Jennie, I want to marry you.’
Jennie looked at him like some animal lost

in the wilderness of its own emotions.
‘ You don‘t mean that, do you Don ?’ she

said almost in an inaudible voice.

I wrote.

It all looked so artiﬁcial that I am

