l0

CAMPASTIMES
door. He went to open the door. How foolish
to have forgotten that it had been locked.
He rushed back to the kitchen to search for
the key and ﬁnally found it in Jennie’s hand

A Pick—(Continued on page 8)

if it’s for a few months is just what I had
always been hoping for.’ Jennie smiled at
him and said ‘ Well, it has come true.’

bag.

The academic year had ended and David
had already left on his job but John was
still in Cowley and had planned to leave
a day or two later.

‘Jen,’ he

He rushed back to the door and opened

it. The ambulance men marched in silently
with the stretcher and in a moment they were
all racing towards the nearest hospital.

said when

It took Jennie almost two days to come.to

he met her on one of the nights
out, ‘I had always wanted to tell you something but somehow I could never bring myself

her senses but it was only on the third day
that the doctors allowed David to talk to her.
She was weeping when he came in and her
head was turned to the wall. She was appa-

to do so.’ He looked at her face and was a
little bit dismayed to trace a sign of excitement.
‘ I want to thank you for the happy hours

rently unaware of David’s presence.
‘Jennie,’ he said softly. Her sobbing ceased

that I have enjoyed in your company. You
know I am leaving to-morrow.’

‘ Why, don’t you love me P ’ she asked.
‘ Sure I do,’ he replied smiling at her.
‘ Well then,’ she asked.

I didn’t think it would

Jennie looked at him in her silent way and

gradually the heart that had been so eager to
give love began to ﬁll with bitterness.
‘ What David and Don said was true then,’
she said slowly and emphatically;
‘ Look, Jen,’ John said, ‘ I only meant to

have a little bit of fun.
go any further ’.

all of a sudden and she turned to face him.
'

Jennie was looking at him with her frank
gaze and then ﬁnally said, ‘ John I love you.’
‘ Thanks Jen,’ said John in a light and gay
tone, ‘ I will always be grateful for that.’

‘ Oh come on Jen.
lead to all this.’

[March l5th, I963

I didn’t intend it to

‘Jen’ he said and rushed to her bedside
and before he knew what he was doing he had
her in his arms and was kissing her ‘ Why did
you do it, Jen ?’

She didn’t reply but once again burst into
tears.

Three years of fun P’

our Security Ofﬁcer’s cow in broad daylight ? ”
'
“ Iwon’t believe anything until I see it in
Campastimes."

‘ Jennie, how could you think of such a

thing P’ David was obviously eager to ask her

something and his hesitancy was obvious in
the manner in which he talked. He decided
to let it go till she was better.
Finally when he learnt from the doctors that
she would be dischargedﬁhe day after to-

morrow he went to meet her.
‘ Hello David ’, he said rather surprised to
see him at that hour.
‘ Surprised to see me 2’ he asked smiling

as he sat himself down on the bed.

‘ Yes ’, said Jen, her voice full with bitter—
ness, ‘ I am sure you have enjoyed yourself.

“Didn’t you hear that someone has stolen

‘ Jen have you decided,’ he asked her.
‘ About what ’ she asked smiling.
‘ About whom you like better John or me.’

babies our only desire is to drink milk upto
the point of satiety, merely eating seems to be
the only desire evinced when young. As

children there is a noticeable change in our
desires and we no longer seek to ﬁnd pleasure in eating alone—Our horizon of thought

has, so to speak, been widened due to greater
contact with the external world, not merely

conﬁned to the home. The spontaneity and
avidity with which most of us desire when
children to become a driver of a locomotive is
well known...the noise, smoke

and

the

whistle seem to herald the very heyday of

During the period

of

‘ Come on Jen,’ said John laughing, ‘lets
enjoy this last night and forget about everything else.’

She did not reply but simply stretched out
her arms and imprinted a passionate kiss.
‘ You ’ she said at the end of it.

utmost happiness.

‘ You enjoy it,’ she said and quickly walked
out of the restaurant.
He sat there looking a bit foolish and

When Jennie had fully recovered and taken
the necessary rest they got married. Jennie

ﬂicting desires which are self-explanatory.

proved to be a perfect wife and the two of

ﬁnally shrugging his shoulders said ‘ Women.’

them were extremely happy together.

He signalled the waiter to bring him a full
mug of beer and when it had arrived he leant

2!:

=I<
EPILOGUE

a:

I know it all sounds a bit odd.

ment.

What would she say, he thought if

But as the

weeks passed into months and I got intimately
acquainted with David and his wife I realised
there was not merely a surface sort of love

that was holding them together.
ward with a jerk. David screwed up the
window because he was beginning to feel
chilly again in the morning air. He seemed to
be watching the empty streets idly but in
reality his heart was pounding with excite-

With the advance of mental maturity our
resources are channelled towards higher and
nobler aims—the missionary zeal with which
many doctors and scientists pursue their avo—

cation exempliﬁes this point.

back on the chair to enjoy it.

‘ Driver,’ said David, ‘ get me to 7th
Street. Please try and hurry.’
‘ Okay Sir,’ said the driver and pressed the
accelerator forcefully and the car started for-

adolescence our desires shift even more outwards—we have to strive against many con—

It was some—

thing much deeper than that that it may seem
queer to you and as it did to me but which
readily exists between two people who have
undergone the same experience ; it exists
between people who have shared the same

joys and sorrows.

How far our desires are satisﬁed and what
happens if they are not fulﬁlled form yet
another enthralling study. Depriving a child
of its due share of candy or toys causes so
much of unhappiness to the child which is
manifest visibly by crying. The same disappointment and undue frustration is always
a natural concomitant to desires unfulﬁlled
perhaps even on a magniﬁed scale. Our
emotions remain as raw as they were when
we were children as when old—the mode of

she learnt that he had just obtained another

expression only changes.

contract with the same ﬁrm.

occasioned by a failure to accomplish some—
thing, say the passing of some examination, has
led even to suicides. What is intended to be

The car screeched to a stop before the

familiar door and he got out and handed the
driver a note and without waiting for the
change went quickly towards the door.
It was locked and even though he knocked

MADRAS BOAT CLUB
REGATTA
I.I.T. to The Fore!
Madras, March 2, 1963 (Campastimer New:
Service). The ﬁnals of the Annual Cold

there was no reply. He waited for sometime, but still no reply came. He went
around to the back and tried the back door
but that too was locked. This didn’t sur-

Weather Regatta of the Madras Boat Club were

prise him. He opened the window near the

Adayar river.
The I.I.T. boys again excelled in four out

door in the way that Jennie had taught him
to and reached out for the hook on which the
door keys usually hung.

there.

But the key was not

But he had hardly opened the window

when a strange smell attacked his attention.
‘ What was that,’ he thought. ‘Gosh,’ he said
a moment later, ‘ it’s the gas,’ he said. For a

held under ideal rowing conditions on the
of the eight possible men’s events. In the
Maiden Sculls, P. L. Kapur was pitched
against V. Siddhartha after both had eliminiated opposition in the heats very easily. The
former won by one length in the very good

moment he stood there and then all of a

timing of 2 m. 4.0 s. for 660 yards.
In the Maiden Pairs, S. Talukdar and

.sudden a fear gripped him.

S. S. Randhawa beat Grant and Aschom in a

‘ Jennie ’ he shouted and leaped in through
the half open window and was running madly
inside the house.

closely contested race.

‘Jennie’ he shouted

but

there was no

response. Then he realised what all this
meant but he rushed to the kitchen, There
on the ﬂoor lay Jennie! He shook her, but

her body was limp and cold.
He rushed to the telephone.
‘ Operator get me the ambulance. 7th Street

Gas poisoning case. For goodness sake hurry.’
It seemed hours before the ambulance
arrived. Meanwhile he had hurriedly opened
the windows and was silently staring at Jennie’s
face. Perhaps she was still alive; he was too

excited to know exactly, and even if she had
been dead his imagination would have forced
him to say otherwise.

The ambulance men were knocking at the

The same pairs were

again matched against each other in the Junior
Pairs, and our boys won the event easily to
annex the Sandeman Cup instituted in 1921.

It is refreshing to note that the Steam Ship is
also a good oarsman l
P. L. Kapur as stroke in the Challenge fours

The frustration

conveyed is that unsatisﬁed desires always
form a potential stronghold for frustration
and emotional instability.

The growth of society and present day
conventions are to a certain extent lop-sided
as they do not facilitate the fulﬁlment of our
desires.

Poverty, caste, language and various

other causes often hamper an individual
towards the conquest of his goal.

Such sup-

pression of desires have a tell-tale effect on our
emotions and consequently set up unwanted

inhibitions.

The ideal or perhaps even Uto-

pian set-up of a Society where everyone can

have the means of fulﬁlling his desires is yet
to be seen. The much talked about ‘repressed
emotions’ and that they are the causes for

crime and abnormalities in behaviour are being
revealed through psychoanalysis.
A proper and judicious choice of a desire
amidst a bewildering maelstrom of desires is
what is to be expected. The proper training
of our emotions is really a much wanted quality in our everyday life. History is replete of

led his team to victory to annex the coveted
M. B. C. Cup for the event.

people who had many desires and their

Basu (Puss) John was runner-up in the
Junior Sculls while the I.I.T. four consisting of
Talukdar, Randhawa, Bajaj and Sihota were
runners-up in the Junior Fours.

existence of desires that has led humanity in

DESHRE
It is fascinating to observe the various
phases and nuances that our concept of happiness undergoes as we grow older. When as

means of attaining them. Perhaps it is the very
its onward march in every sphere of activity——
material and spiritual. The very existence of

desire has often been a source of delight as
has been delightfully portrayed by Hardy: ‘the
impetuosity of passion ambiquity is bearable,
even if it stings and anathematizes—there is a
triumph in the humiliation and a tenderness in

the strife.’
V. RANGANATHAN.

